what is the 1-letter abbrevi of alanin a
what charg doe alanin have neutral
what amino acid has the abbrevi ala alanin
what is the polar of alanin (at ph 7) nonpolar
what is the 3-letter abbrevi of alanin ala
what is the amino acid with abbrevi a alanin
what charg doe arginin have posit
what amino acid has the abbrevi arg arginin
what is the amino acid with abbrevi r arginin
what is the polar of arginin (at ph 7) polar
what is the 3-letter abbrevi of arginin arg
what is the 1-letter abbrevi of arginin r
what is the 3-letter abbrevi of asparagin asn
what is the polar of asparagin (at ph 7) polar
what is the amino acid with abbrevi n asparagin
what is the 1-letter abbrevi of asparagin n
what charg doe asparagin have neutral
what amino acid has the abbrevi asn asparagin
what is the 3-letter abbrevi of aspart acid asp
what charg doe aspart acid have negat
what amino acid has the abbrevi asp aspart acid
what is the 1-letter abbrevi of aspart acid d
what is the polar of aspart acid (at ph 7) polar
what is the amino acid with abbrevi d aspart acid
what is the 1-letter abbrevi of cystein c
what is the polar of cystein (at ph 7) nonpolar
what charg doe cystein have neutral
what is the amino acid with abbrevi c cystein
what is the 3-letter abbrevi of cystein cys
what amino acid has the abbrevi cys cystein
what charg doe glutam acid have negat
what is the polar of glutam acid (at ph 7) polar
what amino acid has the abbrevi glu glutam acid
what is the amino acid with abbrevi e glutam acid
what is the 3-letter abbrevi of glutam acid glu
what is the 1-letter abbrevi of glutam acid e
what amino acid has the abbrevi gln glutamin
what is the amino acid with abbrevi q glutamin
what is the polar of glutamin (at ph 7) polar
what is the 1-letter abbrevi of glutamin q
what is the 3-letter abbrevi of glutamin gln
what charg doe glutamin have neutral
what charg doe glycin have neutral
what is the 3-letter abbrevi of glycin gli
what is the amino acid with abbrevi g glycin
what amino acid has the abbrevi gli glycin
what is the polar of glycin (at ph 7) nonpolar
what is the 1-letter abbrevi of glycin g
what is the 3-letter abbrevi of histidin his
what amino acid has the abbrevi his histidin
what is the polar of histidin (at ph 7) polar
what is the 1-letter abbrevi of histidin h
what charg doe histidin have posit
what is the amino acid with abbrevi h histidin
what is the polar of isoleucin (at ph 7) nonpolar
what is the amino acid with abbrevi i isoleucin
what amino acid has the abbrevi ile isoleucin
what is the 1-letter abbrevi of isoleucin i
what is the 3-letter abbrevi of isoleucin ile
what charg doe isoleucin have neutral
what is the 3-letter abbrevi of leucin leu
what charg doe leucin have neutral
what is the 1-letter abbrevi of leucin l
what amino acid has the abbrevi leu leucin
what is the amino acid with abbrevi l leucin
what is the polar of leucin (at ph 7) nonpolar
what is the polar of lysin (at ph 7) polar
what is the 3-letter abbrevi of lysin lys
what is the 1-letter abbrevi of lysin k
what amino acid has the abbrevi lys lysin
what charg doe lysin have posit
what is the amino acid with abbrevi k lysin
what is the 1-letter abbrevi of methionin m
what is the amino acid with abbrevi m methionin
what is the polar of methionin (at ph 7) nonpolar
what charg doe methionin have neutral
what is the 3-letter abbrevi of methionin met
what amino acid has the abbrevi met methionin
what amino acid has the abbrevi phe phenylalanin
what charg doe phenylalanin have neutral
what is the 1-letter abbrevi of phenylalanin f
what is the polar of phenylalanin (at ph 7) nonpolar
what is the amino acid with abbrevi f phenylalanin
what is the 3-letter abbrevi of phenylalanin phe
what charg doe prolin have neutral
what is the polar of prolin (at ph 7) nonpolar
what amino acid has the abbrevi pro prolin
what is the 3-letter abbrevi of prolin pro
what is the 1-letter abbrevi of prolin p
what is the amino acid with abbrevi p prolin
what is the 1-letter abbrevi of serin s
what charg doe serin have neutral
what amino acid has the abbrevi ser serin
what is the amino acid with abbrevi s serin
what is the 3-letter abbrevi of serin ser
what is the polar of serin (at ph 7) polar
what amino acid has the abbrevi thr threonin
what is the 3-letter abbrevi of threonin thr
what is the amino acid with abbrevi t threonin
what is the polar of threonin (at ph 7) polar
what charg doe threonin have neutral
what is the 1-letter abbrevi of threonin t
what is the 3-letter abbrevi of tryptophan trp
what amino acid has the abbrevi trp tryptophan
what is the 1-letter abbrevi of tryptophan w
what is the amino acid with abbrevi w tryptophan
what charg doe tryptophan have neutral
what is the polar of tryptophan (at ph 7) nonpolar
what charg doe tyrosin have neutral
what is the amino acid with abbrevi y tyrosin
what is the polar of tyrosin (at ph 7) polar
what is the 3-letter abbrevi of tyrosin tyr
what is the 1-letter abbrevi of tyrosin y
what amino acid has the abbrevi tyr tyrosin
what is the polar of valin (at ph 7) nonpolar
what is the 3-letter abbrevi of valin val
what charg doe valin have neutral
what is the 1-letter abbrevi of valin v
what amino acid has the abbrevi val valin
what is the amino acid with abbrevi v valin
adapt radiat period of evolutionari chang in which group of organ  mani new speci whose adapt allow them to fill vacant ecolog role in their communities.
period of evolutionari chang in which group of organ  mani new speci whose adapt allow them to fill vacant ecolog role in their communities. adapt radiat
atp (adenosin triphosphate) an adenine-contain nucleosid triphosph that releas free energi when it phosphat bond are hydrolyzed. this energi is use to drive endergon reaction in cells.
an adenine-contain nucleosid triphosph that releas free energi when it phosphat bond are hydrolyzed. this energi is use to drive endergon reaction in cells. atp (adenosin triphosphate)
archaea one of two prokaryot domains, the other be bacteria.
one of two prokaryot domains, the other be bacteria. archaea
archaean member of the prokaryot domain archaea.
member of the prokaryot domain archaea. archaean
bioinat the use of computers, software, and mathemat model to process and integr biolog in from larg data sets.
the use of computers, software, and mathemat model to process and integr biolog in from larg data sets. bioinat
biolog the scientif studi of life.
the scientif studi of life. biolog
control experi an experi in which an experiment group is compar with a control group that vari onli in the factor be tested.
an experi in which an experiment group is compar with a control group that vari onli in the factor be tested. control experi
data record observations.
record observations. data
deduct reason a type of logic in which specif  are predict from a general premise.
a type of logic in which specif  are predict from a general premise. deduct reason
deoxyribonucl acid (dna) a double-stranded, helic nucleic acid molecul consist of nucleotid monom with a deoxyribos sugar and the nitrogen base adenin (a), cytosin (c), guanin (g), and thymin (t); capabl of replic and determin the inherit structur of a cell proteins.
a double-stranded, helic nucleic acid molecul consist of nucleotid monom with a deoxyribos sugar and the nitrogen base adenin (a), cytosin (c), guanin (g), and thymin (t); capabl of replic and determin the inherit structur of a cell proteins. deoxyribonucl acid (dna)
discoveri scienc the process of scientif inquiri that focus on describ nature.
the process of scientif inquiri that focus on describ nature. discoveri scienc
emerg properti new properti that aris with each step upward in the hierarchi of life, owe to the arrang and interact of part as complex increases.
new properti that aris with each step upward in the hierarchi of life, owe to the arrang and interact of part as complex increases. emerg properti
eukarya the domain that includ all eukaryot organisms.
the domain that includ all eukaryot organisms. eukarya
eukaryot cell a type of cell with a membrane-enclos nucleus and membrane-enclos organelles. organ with [these] (protists, plants, fungi, and animals) are call eukaryotes.
a type of cell with a membrane-enclos nucleus and membrane-enclos organelles. organ with [these] (protists, plants, fungi, and animals) are call eukaryotes. eukaryot cell
evolut descent with modification; the idea that live speci are descend of ancestr speci that were differ from the present-day ones; also defin more narrowli as the chang in the genet composit of a popul from generat to generation.
descent with modification; the idea that live speci are descend of ancestr speci that were differ from the present-day ones; also defin more narrowli as the chang in the genet composit of a popul from generat to generation. evolut
genom the genet materi of an organ or virus; the complet complement of an organ or virus gene along with it noncod nucleic acid sequences.
the genet materi of an organ or virus; the complet complement of an organ or virus gene along with it noncod nucleic acid sequences. genom
hypothesi a tentat answer to a well-fram question, narrow in scope than a theori and subject to testing.
a tentat answer to a well-fram question, narrow in scope than a theori and subject to testing. hypothesi
induct reason a type of logic in which general are base on a larg number of specif observations.
a type of logic in which general are base on a larg number of specif observations. induct reason
inquiri the search for in and explanation, often focus by specif questions.
the search for in and explanation, often focus by specif questions. inquiri
model a represent of a theori or process.
a represent of a theori or process. model
negat feedback a primari mechan of homeostasis, wherebi a chang in a physiolog variabl trigger a respons that counteract the initi change.
a primari mechan of homeostasis, wherebi a chang in a physiolog variabl trigger a respons that counteract the initi change. negat feedback
order in classification, the taxonom categori abov the level of family.
in classification, the taxonom categori abov the level of family. order
posit feedback a physiolog control mechan in which a chang in a variabl trigger mechan that amplifi the change.
a physiolog control mechan in which a chang in a variabl trigger mechan that amplifi the change. posit feedback
prokaryot cell a type of cell lack a membrane-enclos nucleus and membrane-enclos organelles. organ with [these] (bacteria and archaea) are call prokaryotes.
a type of cell lack a membrane-enclos nucleus and membrane-enclos organelles. organ with [these] (bacteria and archaea) are call prokaryotes. prokaryot cell
system biolog an approach to studi biolog that aim to model the dynam behavior of whole biolog systems.
an approach to studi biolog that aim to model the dynam behavior of whole biolog systems. system biolog
technolog the applic of scientif knowledg for a specif purpose, often involv industri or commerc but also includ use in basic research.
the applic of scientif knowledg for a specif purpose, often involv industri or commerc but also includ use in basic research. technolog
ammonia a small, veri toxic molecul (nh3) produc by nitrogen fixat or as a metabol wast product of protein and nucleic acid metabolism.
a small, veri toxic molecul (nh3) produc by nitrogen fixat or as a metabol wast product of protein and nucleic acid metabolism. ammonia
anion a negat charg ion.
a negat charg ion. anion
atom the smallest unit of matter that retain the properti of an element.
the smallest unit of matter that retain the properti of an element. atom
atom mass the total mass of an atom, which is the mass in gram of 1 mole of the atom.
the total mass of an atom, which is the mass in gram of 1 mole of the atom. atom mass
atom nucleus an atom dens central core, contain proton and neutrons.
an atom dens central core, contain proton and neutrons. atom nucleus
atom number the number of proton in the nucleus of an atom, uniqu for each element and design by a subscript to the left of the element symbol.
the number of proton in the nucleus of an atom, uniqu for each element and design by a subscript to the left of the element symbol. atom number
cation a posit charg ion.
a posit charg ion. cation
chemic bond an attract between two atoms,  from a share of outer-shel electron or the presenc of opposit charg on the atoms. the bond atom gain complet outer electron shells.
an attract between two atoms,  from a share of outer-shel electron or the presenc of opposit charg on the atoms. the bond atom gain complet outer electron shells. chemic bond
chemic equilibrium in a chemic reaction, the state in which the rate of the forward reaction equal the rate of the revers reaction, so that the relat concentr of the reactant and product do not chang with time.
in a chemic reaction, the state in which the rate of the forward reaction equal the rate of the revers reaction, so that the relat concentr of the reactant and product do not chang with time. chemic equilibrium
chemic reaction the make and break of chemic bonds, lead to chang in the composit of matter.
the make and break of chemic bonds, lead to chang in the composit of matter. chemic reaction
compound a substanc consist of two or more differ element combin in a fix ratio.
a substanc consist of two or more differ element combin in a fix ratio. compound
coval bond a type of strong chemic bond in which two atom share one or more pair of valenc electrons.
a type of strong chemic bond in which two atom share one or more pair of valenc electrons. coval bond
dalton a measur of mass for atom and subatom particles; the same as the atom mass unit, or amu.
a measur of mass for atom and subatom particles; the same as the atom mass unit, or amu. dalton
doubl bond the share of two pair of valenc electron by two atoms.
the share of two pair of valenc electron by two atoms. doubl bond
electron a subatom particl with a singl negat electr charg and a mass about 1/2,000 that of a neutron or proton. one or more [these] move around the nucleus of an atom.
a subatom particl with a singl negat electr charg and a mass about 1/2,000 that of a neutron or proton. one or more [these] move around the nucleus of an atom. electron
electron shell an energi level of electron at a characterist averag distanc from the nucleus of an atom.
an energi level of electron at a characterist averag distanc from the nucleus of an atom. electron shell
electroneg the attract of a given atom for the electron of a coval bond.
the attract of a given atom for the electron of a coval bond. electroneg
element ani substanc that cannot be broken down to ani other substanc by chemic reactions.
ani substanc that cannot be broken down to ani other substanc by chemic reactions. element
energi the capac to caus change, especi to do work (to move matter against an oppos force).
the capac to caus change, especi to do work (to move matter against an oppos force). energi
hydrogen bond a type of weak chemic bond that is  when the slight posit hydrogen atom of a polar coval bond in one molecul is attract to the slight negat atom of a polar coval bond in anoth molecule.
a type of weak chemic bond that is  when the slight posit hydrogen atom of a polar coval bond in one molecul is attract to the slight negat atom of a polar coval bond in anoth molecule. hydrogen bond
ion an atom or group of atom that has gain or lost one or more electrons, thus acquir a charge.
an atom or group of atom that has gain or lost one or more electrons, thus acquir a charge. ion
ionic bond a chemic bond  from the attract between opposit charg ions.
a chemic bond  from the attract between opposit charg ions. ionic bond
ionic compound a compound  from the at of an ionic bond; also call a salt.
a compound  from the at of an ionic bond; also call a salt. ionic compound
isotop one of sever atom  of an element, each with the same number of proton but a differ number of neutrons, thus differ in atom mass.
one of sever atom  of an element, each with the same number of proton but a differ number of neutrons, thus differ in atom mass. isotop
mass number the sum of the number of proton and neutron in an atom nucleus.
the sum of the number of proton and neutron in an atom nucleus. mass number
matter anyth that take up space and has mass.
anyth that take up space and has mass. matter
molecular ula a type of molecular notat repres the quantiti of constitu atoms, but not the natur of the bond that join them.
a type of molecular notat repres the quantiti of constitu atoms, but not the natur of the bond that join them. molecular ula
molecul two or more atom held togeth by coval bonds.
two or more atom held togeth by coval bonds. molecul
neutron a subatom particl have no electr charg (electr neutral), with a mass of about 1.7 × 10-24 g, found in the nucleus of an atom.
a subatom particl have no electr charg (electr neutral), with a mass of about 1.7 × 10-24 g, found in the nucleus of an atom. neutron
nonpolar coval bond a type of coval bond in which electron are share equal between two atom of similar electronegativity.
a type of coval bond in which electron are share equal between two atom of similar electronegativity. nonpolar coval bond
nucleus (1) an atom central core, contain proton and neutrons. (2) the chromosome-contain organell of a eukaryot cell. (3) a cluster of neurons.
(1) an atom central core, contain proton and neutrons. (2) the chromosome-contain organell of a eukaryot cell. (3) a cluster of neurons. nucleus
orbit the three-dimension space where an electron is found 90% of the time.
the three-dimension space where an electron is found 90% of the time. orbit
polar coval bond a coval bond between atom that differ in electronegativity. the share electron are pull closer to the more electroneg atom, make it slight negat and the other atom slight positive.
a coval bond between atom that differ in electronegativity. the share electron are pull closer to the more electroneg atom, make it slight negat and the other atom slight positive. polar coval bond
potenti energi the energi that matter possess as a  of it locat or spatial arrang (structure).
the energi that matter possess as a  of it locat or spatial arrang (structure). potenti energi
product a materi  from a chemic reaction.
a materi  from a chemic reaction. product
proton a subatom particl with a singl posit electr charge, with a mass of about 1.7 × 10-24 g, found in the nucleus of an atom.
a subatom particl with a singl posit electr charge, with a mass of about 1.7 × 10-24 g, found in the nucleus of an atom. proton
radioact isotop an isotop (an atom  of a chemic element) that is unstable; the nucleus decay spontaneously, give off detect particl and energy.
an isotop (an atom  of a chemic element) that is unstable; the nucleus decay spontaneously, give off detect particl and energy. radioact isotop
reactant a start materi in a chemic reaction.
a start materi in a chemic reaction. reactant
salt a compound  from the at of an ionic bond; also call an ionic compound.
a compound  from the at of an ionic bond; also call an ionic compound. salt
singl bond the share of one pair of valenc electron by two atoms.
the share of one pair of valenc electron by two atoms. singl bond
structur ula a type of molecular notat in which the constitu atom are join by line repres coval bonds.
a type of molecular notat in which the constitu atom are join by line repres coval bonds. structur ula
theori an explan that is broad in scope, generat new hypotheses, and is support by a larg bodi of evidence.
an explan that is broad in scope, generat new hypotheses, and is support by a larg bodi of evidence. theori
trace element an element indispens for life but requir in extrem minut amounts.
an element indispens for life but requir in extrem minut amounts. trace element
valenc the bond capac of a given atom; usual equal the number of unpair electron requir to complet the atom outermost shell.
the bond capac of a given atom; usual equal the number of unpair electron requir to complet the atom outermost shell. valenc
valenc electron an electron in the outermost electron shell.
an electron in the outermost electron shell. valenc electron
valenc shell the outermost energi shell of an atom, contain the valenc electron involv in the chemic reaction of that atom.
the outermost energi shell of an atom, contain the valenc electron involv in the chemic reaction of that atom. valenc shell
van der waal interact weak attract between molecul or part of molecul that  from local charg fluctuations.
weak attract between molecul or part of molecul that  from local charg fluctuations. van der waal interact
acid a substanc that increas the hydrogen ion concentr of a solution.
a substanc that increas the hydrogen ion concentr of a solution. acid
acid precipit rain, snow, or fog that is more acid than ph 5.2.
rain, snow, or fog that is more acid than ph 5.2. acid precipit
adhes the attract between differ kind of molecules.
the attract between differ kind of molecules. adhes
aqueous solut a solut in which water is the solvent.
a solut in which water is the solvent. aqueous solut
base a substanc that reduc the hydrogen ion concentr of a solution.
a substanc that reduc the hydrogen ion concentr of a solution. base
buffer a substanc that consist of acid and base  in a solut and that minim chang in ph when extran acid or base are ad to the solution.
a substanc that consist of acid and base  in a solut and that minim chang in ph when extran acid or base are ad to the solution. buffer
calori (cal) the amount of heat energi requir to rais the temperatur of 1 g of water by 1°c; also the amount of heat energi that 1 g of water releas when it cool by 1°c. [this] (with a capit [t]), usual use to indic the energi content of food, is a kilocalorie.
the amount of heat energi requir to rais the temperatur of 1 g of water by 1°c; also the amount of heat energi that 1 g of water releas when it cool by 1°c. [this] (with a capit [t]), usual use to indic the energi content of food, is a kilocalorie. calori (cal)
celsius scale a temperatur scale (°c) equal to 5/9(°f – 32) that measur the freez point of water at 0°c and the boil point of water at 100°c.
a temperatur scale (°c) equal to 5/9(°f – 32) that measur the freez point of water at 0°c and the boil point of water at 100°c. celsius scale
cohes the  togeth of like molecules, often by hydrogen bonds.
the  togeth of like molecules, often by hydrogen bonds. cohes
colloid a mixtur made up of a liquid and particl that (becaus of their larg size) remain suspend rather than dissolv in that liquid.
a mixtur made up of a liquid and particl that (becaus of their larg size) remain suspend rather than dissolv in that liquid. colloid
evapor the process by which a liquid chang to a gas.
the process by which a liquid chang to a gas. evapor
evapor cool the process in which the surfac of an object becom cooler dure evaporation, owe to a chang of the molecul with the greatest kinet energi from the liquid to the gaseous state.
the process in which the surfac of an object becom cooler dure evaporation, owe to a chang of the molecul with the greatest kinet energi from the liquid to the gaseous state. evapor cool
heat the total amount of kinet energi due to the random motion of atom or molecul in a bodi of matter; also call thermal energy. [this] is energi in it most random .
the total amount of kinet energi due to the random motion of atom or molecul in a bodi of matter; also call thermal energy. [this] is energi in it most random . heat
heat of vapor the quantiti of heat a liquid must absorb for 1 g of it to be convert from the liquid to the gaseous state.
the quantiti of heat a liquid must absorb for 1 g of it to be convert from the liquid to the gaseous state. heat of vapor
hydrat shell the sphere of water molecul around a dissolv ion.
the sphere of water molecul around a dissolv ion. hydrat shell
hydrogen ion a singl proton with a charg of 1+. the dissoci of a water molecul (h2o) lead to the generat of a hydroxid ion (oh–) and a [this] (h+).
a singl proton with a charg of 1+. the dissoci of a water molecul (h2o) lead to the generat of a hydroxid ion (oh–) and a [this] (h+). hydrogen ion
hydronium ion a water molecul that has an extra proton bound to it; h3o+.
a water molecul that has an extra proton bound to it; h3o+. hydronium ion
hydrophil have an affin for water.
have an affin for water. hydrophil
hydrophob have an avers to water; tend to coalesc and  droplet in water.
have an avers to water; tend to coalesc and  droplet in water. hydrophob
hydroxid ion a water molecul that has lost a proton; oh–.
a water molecul that has lost a proton; oh–. hydroxid ion
joul (j) a unit of energy: 1 [this] = 0.239 cal; 1 cal = 4.184 [this].
a unit of energy: 1 [this] = 0.239 cal; 1 cal = 4.184 [this]. joul (j)
kilocalori (kcal) a thousand calories; the amount of heat energi requir to rais the temperatur of 1 kg of water by 1°c.
a thousand calories; the amount of heat energi requir to rais the temperatur of 1 kg of water by 1°c. kilocalori (kcal)
kinet energi the energi associ with the relat motion of objects. move matter can per work by impart motion to other matter.
the energi associ with the relat motion of objects. move matter can per work by impart motion to other matter. kinet energi
molar a common measur of solut concentration, refer to the number of mole of solut per liter of solution.
a common measur of solut concentration, refer to the number of mole of solut per liter of solution. molar
mole (mol) the number of gram of a substanc that equal it molecular weight in dalton and contain avogadro number of molecules.
the number of gram of a substanc that equal it molecular weight in dalton and contain avogadro number of molecules. mole (mol)
molecular mass the sum of the mass of all the atom in a molecule; sometim call molecular weight.
the sum of the mass of all the atom in a molecule; sometim call molecular weight. molecular mass
ph a measur of hydrogen ion concentr equal to –log [h+] and rang in valu from 0 to 14.
a measur of hydrogen ion concentr equal to –log [h+] and rang in valu from 0 to 14. ph
polar molecul a molecul (such as water) with opposit charg on differ end of the molecule.
a molecul (such as water) with opposit charg on differ end of the molecule. polar molecul
solut a substanc that is dissolv in a solution.
a substanc that is dissolv in a solution. solut
solut a liquid that is a homogen mixtur of two or more substances.
a liquid that is a homogen mixtur of two or more substances. solut
solvent the dissolv agent of a solution. water is the most versatil [this] known.
the dissolv agent of a solution. water is the most versatil [this] known. solvent
specif heat the amount of heat that must be absorb or lost for 1 g of a substanc to chang it temperatur by 1°c.
the amount of heat that must be absorb or lost for 1 g of a substanc to chang it temperatur by 1°c. specif heat
structur isom one of sever compound that have the same molecular ula but differ in the coval arrang of their atoms.
one of sever compound that have the same molecular ula but differ in the coval arrang of their atoms. structur isom
surfac tension a measur of how difficult it is to stretch or break the surfac of a liquid. water has a high [this] becaus of the hydrogen bond of surfac molecules.
a measur of how difficult it is to stretch or break the surfac of a liquid. water has a high [this] becaus of the hydrogen bond of surfac molecules. surfac tension
temperatur a measur of the intens of heat in degrees, reflect the averag kinet energi of the molecules.
a measur of the intens of heat in degrees, reflect the averag kinet energi of the molecules. temperatur
amino group a chemic group consist of a nitrogen atom bond to two hydrogen atoms; can act as a base in solution, accept a hydrogen ion and acquir a charg of 1+.
a chemic group consist of a nitrogen atom bond to two hydrogen atoms; can act as a base in solution, accept a hydrogen ion and acquir a charg of 1+. amino group
carbonyl group a chemic group present in aldehyd and keton and consist of a carbon atom double-bond to an oxygen atom.
a chemic group present in aldehyd and keton and consist of a carbon atom double-bond to an oxygen atom. carbonyl group
carboxyl group a chemic group present in organ acid and consist of a singl carbon atom double-bond to an oxygen atom and also bond to a hydroxyl group.
a chemic group present in organ acid and consist of a singl carbon atom double-bond to an oxygen atom and also bond to a hydroxyl group. carboxyl group
enantiom one of two compound that are mirror imag of each other.
one of two compound that are mirror imag of each other. enantiom
function group a specif configur of atom common attach to the carbon skeleton of organ molecul and usual involv in chemic reactions.
a specif configur of atom common attach to the carbon skeleton of organ molecul and usual involv in chemic reactions. function group
geometr isom one of sever compound that have the same molecular ula and coval arrang but differ in the spatial arrang of their atom owe to the inflex of doubl bonds.
one of sever compound that have the same molecular ula and coval arrang but differ in the spatial arrang of their atom owe to the inflex of doubl bonds. geometr isom
hydrocarbon an organ molecul consist onli of carbon and hydrogen.
an organ molecul consist onli of carbon and hydrogen. hydrocarbon
hydroxyl group a chemic group consist of an oxygen atom join to a hydrogen atom. molecul possess this group are solubl in water and are call alcohols.
a chemic group consist of an oxygen atom join to a hydrogen atom. molecul possess this group are solubl in water and are call alcohols. hydroxyl group
isom one of sever compound with the same molecular ula but differ structur and therefor differ properties. the three type of [these] are structur [these], geometr [these], and enantiomers.
one of sever compound with the same molecular ula but differ structur and therefor differ properties. the three type of [these] are structur [these], geometr [these], and enantiomers. isom
methyl group a chemic group consist of a carbon bond to three hydrogen atoms. [this] may be attach to a carbon or to a differ atom.
a chemic group consist of a carbon bond to three hydrogen atoms. [this] may be attach to a carbon or to a differ atom. methyl group
organ chemistri the studi of carbon compound (organ compounds).
the studi of carbon compound (organ compounds). organ chemistri
phosphat group a chemic group consist of a phosphorus atom bond to four oxygen atoms; import in energi transfer.
a chemic group consist of a phosphorus atom bond to four oxygen atoms; import in energi transfer. phosphat group
sulfhydryl group a chemic group consist of a sulfur atom bond to a hydrogen atom.
a chemic group consist of a sulfur atom bond to a hydrogen atom. sulfhydryl group
urea a solubl nitrogen wast produc in the liver by a metabol cycl that combin ammonia with carbon dioxide.
a solubl nitrogen wast produc in the liver by a metabol cycl that combin ammonia with carbon dioxide. urea
alpha (α) helix a spiral shape constitut one  of the secondari structur of proteins, aris from a specif pattern of hydrogen bonding.
a spiral shape constitut one  of the secondari structur of proteins, aris from a specif pattern of hydrogen bonding. alpha (α) helix
amino acid an organ molecul possess both carboxyl and amino groups. [these] serv as the monom of polypeptides.
an organ molecul possess both carboxyl and amino groups. [these] serv as the monom of polypeptides. amino acid
antiparallel the opposit arrang of the sugar-phosph backbon in a dna doubl helix.
the opposit arrang of the sugar-phosph backbon in a dna doubl helix. antiparallel
atherosclerosi a cardiovascular diseas in which fatti deposit call plaqu develop in the inner wall of the arteries, obstruct the arteri and caus them to harden.
a cardiovascular diseas in which fatti deposit call plaqu develop in the inner wall of the arteries, obstruct the arteri and caus them to harden. atherosclerosi
beta (β) pleat sheet one  of the secondari structur of protein in which the polypeptid chain fold back and forth. two region of the chain lie parallel to each other and are held togeth by hydrogen bonds.
one  of the secondari structur of protein in which the polypeptid chain fold back and forth. two region of the chain lie parallel to each other and are held togeth by hydrogen bonds. beta (β) pleat sheet
carbohydr a sugar (monosaccharide) or one of it dimer (disaccharides) or polym (polysaccharides).
a sugar (monosaccharide) or one of it dimer (disaccharides) or polym (polysaccharides). carbohydr
catalyst a chemic agent that increas the rate of a reaction without be consum by the reaction.
a chemic agent that increas the rate of a reaction without be consum by the reaction. catalyst
cellulos a structur polysaccharid of plant cell walls, consist of glucos monom join by β glycosid linkages.
a structur polysaccharid of plant cell walls, consist of glucos monom join by β glycosid linkages. cellulos
chaperonin a protein molecul that assist in the proper fold of other proteins.
a protein molecul that assist in the proper fold of other proteins. chaperonin
chitin a structur polysaccharide, consist of amino sugar monomers, found in mani fungal cell wall and in the exoskeleton of all arthropods.
a structur polysaccharide, consist of amino sugar monomers, found in mani fungal cell wall and in the exoskeleton of all arthropods. chitin
cholesterol a steroid that  an essenti compon of anim cell membran and act as a precursor molecul for the synthesi of other biolog import steroids, such as hormones.
a steroid that  an essenti compon of anim cell membran and act as a precursor molecul for the synthesi of other biolog import steroids, such as hormones. cholesterol
collagen a glycoprotein in the extracellular matrix of anim cell that  strong fibers, found extens in connect tissu and bone; the most abund protein in the anim kingdom.
a glycoprotein in the extracellular matrix of anim cell that  strong fibers, found extens in connect tissu and bone; the most abund protein in the anim kingdom. collagen
condens reaction a reaction in which two molecul becom coval bond to each other through the loss of a small molecule, usual water, in which case it is also call a dehydr reaction.
a reaction in which two molecul becom coval bond to each other through the loss of a small molecule, usual water, in which case it is also call a dehydr reaction. condens reaction
dehydr reaction a chemic reaction in which two molecul coval bond to each other with the remov of a water molecule.
a chemic reaction in which two molecul coval bond to each other with the remov of a water molecule. dehydr reaction
deoxyribos the sugar compon of dna nucleotides, have one fewer hydroxyl group than ribose, the sugar compon of rna nucleotides.
the sugar compon of dna nucleotides, have one fewer hydroxyl group than ribose, the sugar compon of rna nucleotides. deoxyribos
disaccharid a doubl sugar, consist of two monosaccharid join by a glycosid linkag  dure dehydr synthesis.
a doubl sugar, consist of two monosaccharid join by a glycosid linkag  dure dehydr synthesis. disaccharid
disulfid bridg a strong coval bond  when the sulfur of one cystein monom bond to the sulfur of anoth cystein monomer.
a strong coval bond  when the sulfur of one cystein monom bond to the sulfur of anoth cystein monomer. disulfid bridg
doubl helix the  of nativ dna, refer to it two adjac antiparallel polynucleotid strand wound around an imaginari axi into a spiral shape.
the  of nativ dna, refer to it two adjac antiparallel polynucleotid strand wound around an imaginari axi into a spiral shape. doubl helix
endorphin ani of sever hormon produc in the brain and anterior pituitari that inhibit pain perception.
ani of sever hormon produc in the brain and anterior pituitari that inhibit pain perception. endorphin
enzym a macromolecul serv as a catalyst, a chemic agent that chang the rate of a reaction without be consum by the reaction.
a macromolecul serv as a catalyst, a chemic agent that chang the rate of a reaction without be consum by the reaction. enzym
fat a lipid consist of three fatti acid link to one glycerol molecule; also call a triacylglycerol or triglyceride.
a lipid consist of three fatti acid link to one glycerol molecule; also call a triacylglycerol or triglyceride. fat
fatti acid a long carbon chain carboxyl acid. [these] vari in length and in the number and locat of doubl bonds; three [these] link to a glycerol molecul  a fat molecule, also known as a triacylglycerol or triglyceride.
a long carbon chain carboxyl acid. [these] vari in length and in the number and locat of doubl bonds; three [these] link to a glycerol molecul  a fat molecule, also known as a triacylglycerol or triglyceride. fatti acid
gene a discret unit of hereditari in consist of a specif nucleotid sequenc in dna (or rna, in some viruses).
a discret unit of hereditari in consist of a specif nucleotid sequenc in dna (or rna, in some viruses). gene
glycosid linkag a coval bond  between two monosaccharid by a dehydr reaction.
a coval bond  between two monosaccharid by a dehydr reaction. glycosid linkag
hydrolysi a chemic process that lyses, or splits, molecul by the addit of water, function in disassembl of polym to monomers.
a chemic process that lyses, or splits, molecul by the addit of water, function in disassembl of polym to monomers. hydrolysi
hydrophob interact a type of weak chemic bond  when molecul that do not mix with water coalesc to exclud water.
a type of weak chemic bond  when molecul that do not mix with water coalesc to exclud water. hydrophob interact
insulin a hormon secret by pancreat beta cell that lower blood glucos levels. it promot the uptak of glucos by most bodi cell and the synthesi and storag of glycogen in the liver and also stimul protein and fat synthesis.
a hormon secret by pancreat beta cell that lower blood glucos levels. it promot the uptak of glucos by most bodi cell and the synthesi and storag of glycogen in the liver and also stimul protein and fat synthesis. insulin
lipid one of a group of compounds, includ fats, phospholipids, and steroids, that mix poorly, if at all, with water.
one of a group of compounds, includ fats, phospholipids, and steroids, that mix poorly, if at all, with water. lipid
messeng rna (mrna) a type of rna, synthes use a dna template, that attach to ribosom in the cytoplasm and specifi the primari structur of a protein.
a type of rna, synthes use a dna template, that attach to ribosom in the cytoplasm and specifi the primari structur of a protein. messeng rna (mrna)
monom the subunit that serv as the build  of a polymer.
the subunit that serv as the build  of a polymer. monom
monosaccharid the simplest carbohydrate,  alon or serv as a monom for disaccharid and polysaccharides. also known as simpl sugars, [these] have molecular ula that are general some multipl of ch2o.
the simplest carbohydrate,  alon or serv as a monom for disaccharid and polysaccharides. also known as simpl sugars, [these] have molecular ula that are general some multipl of ch2o. monosaccharid
nucleic acid a polym (polynucleotide) consist of mani nucleotid monomers; serv as a blueprint for protein and, through the action of proteins, for all cellular ities. the two type are dna and rna.
a polym (polynucleotide) consist of mani nucleotid monomers; serv as a blueprint for protein and, through the action of proteins, for all cellular ities. the two type are dna and rna. nucleic acid
nucleotid the build  of a nucleic acid, consist of a five-carbon sugar coval bond to a nitrogen base and a phosphat group.
the build  of a nucleic acid, consist of a five-carbon sugar coval bond to a nitrogen base and a phosphat group. nucleotid
peptid bond the coval bond between the carboxyl group on one amino acid and the amino group on another,  by a dehydr reaction.
the coval bond between the carboxyl group on one amino acid and the amino group on another,  by a dehydr reaction. peptid bond
phospholipid a lipid made up of glycerol join to two fatti acid and a phosphat group. the hydrocarbon chain of the fatti acid act as nonpolar, hydrophob tails, while the rest of the molecul act as a polar, hydrophil head. [these]  bilay that function as biolog membranes.
a lipid made up of glycerol join to two fatti acid and a phosphat group. the hydrocarbon chain of the fatti acid act as nonpolar, hydrophob tails, while the rest of the molecul act as a polar, hydrophil head. [these]  bilay that function as biolog membranes. phospholipid
polym a long molecul consist of mani similar or ident monom link together.
a long molecul consist of mani similar or ident monom link together. polym
polypeptid a polym (chain) of mani amino acid link togeth by peptid bonds.
a polym (chain) of mani amino acid link togeth by peptid bonds. polypeptid
polysaccharid a polym of mani monosaccharides,  by dehydr reactions.
a polym of mani monosaccharides,  by dehydr reactions. polysaccharid
primari structur the level of protein structur refer to the specif sequenc of amino acids.
the level of protein structur refer to the specif sequenc of amino acids. primari structur
protein a function biolog molecul consist of one or more polypeptid fold and coil into a specif three-dimension structure.
a function biolog molecul consist of one or more polypeptid fold and coil into a specif three-dimension structure. protein
protein kinas an enzym that transfer phosphat group from atp to a protein, thus phosphoryl the protein.
an enzym that transfer phosphat group from atp to a protein, thus phosphoryl the protein. protein kinas
purin one of two type of nitrogen base found in nucleotides, character by a six-memb ring fuse to a five-memb ring. adenin (a) and guanin (g) are [these].
one of two type of nitrogen base found in nucleotides, character by a six-memb ring fuse to a five-memb ring. adenin (a) and guanin (g) are [these]. purin
pyrimidin one of two type of nitrogen base found in nucleotides, character by a six-memb ring. cytosin (c), thymin (t), and uracil (u) are [these].
one of two type of nitrogen base found in nucleotides, character by a six-memb ring. cytosin (c), thymin (t), and uracil (u) are [these]. pyrimidin
quaternari structur the particular shape of a complex, aggreg protein, defin by the characterist three-dimension arrang of it constitu subunits, each a polypeptide.
the particular shape of a complex, aggreg protein, defin by the characterist three-dimension arrang of it constitu subunits, each a polypeptide. quaternari structur
ribonucl acid (rna) a type of nucleic acid consist of nucleotid monom with a ribos sugar and the nitrogen base adenin (a), cytosin (c), guanin (g), and uracil (u); usual single-stranded; function in protein synthesis, gene regulation, and as the genom of some viruses.
a type of nucleic acid consist of nucleotid monom with a ribos sugar and the nitrogen base adenin (a), cytosin (c), guanin (g), and uracil (u); usual single-stranded; function in protein synthesis, gene regulation, and as the genom of some viruses. ribonucl acid (rna)
ribos the sugar compon of rna nucleotides.
the sugar compon of rna nucleotides. ribos
satur fatti acid a fatti acid in which all carbon in the hydrocarbon tail are connect by singl bonds, thus maxim the number of hydrogen atom that are attach to the carbon skeleton.
a fatti acid in which all carbon in the hydrocarbon tail are connect by singl bonds, thus maxim the number of hydrogen atom that are attach to the carbon skeleton. satur fatti acid
secondari structur the localized, repetit coil or fold of the polypeptid backbon of a protein due to hydrogen bond at between constitu of the backbone.
the localized, repetit coil or fold of the polypeptid backbon of a protein due to hydrogen bond at between constitu of the backbone. secondari structur
starch a storag polysaccharid in plants, consist entir of glucos monom join by a glycosid linkages.
a storag polysaccharid in plants, consist entir of glucos monom join by a glycosid linkages. starch
steroid a type of lipid character by a carbon skeleton consist of four ring with various chemic group attached.
a type of lipid character by a carbon skeleton consist of four ring with various chemic group attached. steroid
tertiari structur irregular contort of a protein molecul due to interact of side chain involv in hydrophob interactions, ionic bonds, hydrogen bonds, and disulfid bridges.
irregular contort of a protein molecul due to interact of side chain involv in hydrophob interactions, ionic bonds, hydrogen bonds, and disulfid bridges. tertiari structur
tran fat an unsatur fat contain one or more tran doubl bonds.
an unsatur fat contain one or more tran doubl bonds. tran fat
triacylglycerol three fatti acid link to one glycerol molecule; also call a fat or a triglyceride.
three fatti acid link to one glycerol molecule; also call a fat or a triglyceride. triacylglycerol
unsatur fatti acid a fatti acid possess one or more doubl bond between the carbon in the hydrocarbon tail. such bond reduc the number of hydrogen atom attach to the carbon skeleton.
a fatti acid possess one or more doubl bond between the carbon in the hydrocarbon tail. such bond reduc the number of hydrogen atom attach to the carbon skeleton. unsatur fatti acid
x-ray crystallographi a techniqu that depend on the diffract of an x-ray beam by the individu atom of a crystal molecul to studi the three-dimension structur of the molecule.
a techniqu that depend on the diffract of an x-ray beam by the individu atom of a crystal molecul to studi the three-dimension structur of the molecule. x-ray crystallographi
polynucleotid a polym consist of mani nucleotid monom in a chain; nucleotid can be those of dna or rna.
a polym consist of mani nucleotid monom in a chain; nucleotid can be those of dna or rna. polynucleotid
 energi the amount of energi that reactant must absorb befor a chemic reaction will start; also call free energi of ation.
the amount of energi that reactant must absorb befor a chemic reaction will start; also call free energi of ation.  energi
 site the specif portion of an enzym that  the substrat by mean of multipl weak interact and that  the pocket in which catalysi occurs.
the specif portion of an enzym that  the substrat by mean of multipl weak interact and that  the pocket in which catalysi occurs.  site
alloster regul the  of a regulatori molecul to a protein at one site that affect the function of the protein at a differ site.
the  of a regulatori molecul to a protein at one site that affect the function of the protein at a differ site. alloster regul
anabol pathway a metabol pathway that consum energi to synthes a complex molecul from simpler compounds.
a metabol pathway that consum energi to synthes a complex molecul from simpler compounds. anabol pathway
bioenerget (1) the overal flow and trans of energi in an organism. (2) the studi of how energi flow through organisms.
(1) the overal flow and trans of energi in an organism. (2) the studi of how energi flow through organisms. bioenerget
catabol pathway a metabol pathway that releas energi by break down complex molecul to simpler compounds.
a metabol pathway that releas energi by break down complex molecul to simpler compounds. catabol pathway
chemic energi energi avail in molecul for releas in a chemic reaction; a  of potenti energy.
energi avail in molecul for releas in a chemic reaction; a  of potenti energy. chemic energi
coenzym an organ molecul serv as a cofactor. most vitamin function as [these] in metabol reactions.
an organ molecul serv as a cofactor. most vitamin function as [these] in metabol reactions. coenzym
cofactor ani nonprotein molecul or ion that is requir for the proper function of an enzyme. [these] can be perman bound to the  site or may  loos with the substrat dure catalysis.
ani nonprotein molecul or ion that is requir for the proper function of an enzyme. [these] can be perman bound to the  site or may  loos with the substrat dure catalysis. cofactor
competit inhibitor a substanc that reduc the  of an enzym by enter the  site in place of the substrat whose structur it mimics.
a substanc that reduc the  of an enzym by enter the  site in place of the substrat whose structur it mimics. competit inhibitor
cooper a kind of alloster regul wherebi a shape chang in one subunit of a protein caus by substrat  is transmit to all the others, facilit  of subsequ substrat molecules.
a kind of alloster regul wherebi a shape chang in one subunit of a protein caus by substrat  is transmit to all the others, facilit  of subsequ substrat molecules. cooper
endergon reaction a nonspontan chemic reaction, in which free energi is absorb from the surroundings.
a nonspontan chemic reaction, in which free energi is absorb from the surroundings. endergon reaction
energi coupl in cellular metabolism, the use of energi releas from an exergon reaction to drive an endergon reaction.
in cellular metabolism, the use of energi releas from an exergon reaction to drive an endergon reaction. energi coupl
entropi a measur of disorder, or randomness.
a measur of disorder, or randomness. entropi
enzyme-substr complex a temporari complex  when an enzym  to it substrat molecule(s).
a temporari complex  when an enzym  to it substrat molecule(s). enzyme-substr complex
exergon reaction a spontan chemic reaction, in which there is a net releas of free energy.
a spontan chemic reaction, in which there is a net releas of free energy. exergon reaction
feedback inhibit a method of metabol control in which the end product of a metabol pathway act as an inhibitor of an enzym within that pathway.
a method of metabol control in which the end product of a metabol pathway act as an inhibitor of an enzym within that pathway. feedback inhibit
first law of thermodynam the principl of conserv of energy: energi can be transfer and transed, but it cannot be creat or destroyed.
the principl of conserv of energy: energi can be transfer and transed, but it cannot be creat or destroyed. first law of thermodynam
free energi the portion of a biolog system energi that can per work when temperatur and pressur are uni throughout the system. (the chang in [this] of a system is calcul by the equat δg = δh – tδs, where h is enthalpi [in biolog systems, equival to total energy], t is absolut temperature, and s is entropy.)
the portion of a biolog system energi that can per work when temperatur and pressur are uni throughout the system. (the chang in [this] of a system is calcul by the equat δg = δh – tδs, where h is enthalpi [in biolog systems, equival to total energy], t is absolut temperature, and s is entropy.) free energi
hemoglobin an iron-contain protein in red blood cell that revers  oxygen.
an iron-contain protein in red blood cell that revers  oxygen. hemoglobin
induc fit induc by entri of the substrate, the chang in shape of the  site of an enzym so that it  more snug to the substrate.
induc by entri of the substrate, the chang in shape of the  site of an enzym so that it  more snug to the substrate. induc fit
metabol pathway a seri of chemic reaction that either build a complex molecul (anabol pathway) or break down a complex molecul into simpler compound (catabol pathway).
a seri of chemic reaction that either build a complex molecul (anabol pathway) or break down a complex molecul into simpler compound (catabol pathway). metabol pathway
metabol the total of an organ chemic reactions, consist of catabol and anabol pathways, which manag the materi and energi resourc of the organism.
the total of an organ chemic reactions, consist of catabol and anabol pathways, which manag the materi and energi resourc of the organism. metabol
noncompetit inhibitor a substanc that reduc the  of an enzym by  to a locat remot from the  site, chang the enzym shape so that the  site no longer function effectively.
a substanc that reduc the  of an enzym by  to a locat remot from the  site, chang the enzym shape so that the  site no longer function effectively. noncompetit inhibitor
phosphoryl refer to a molecul that is coval bond to a phosphat group.
refer to a molecul that is coval bond to a phosphat group. phosphoryl
second law of thermodynam the principl state that everi energi transfer or trans increas the entropi of the universe. order  of energi are at least part convert to heat.
the principl state that everi energi transfer or trans increas the entropi of the universe. order  of energi are at least part convert to heat. second law of thermodynam
substrat the reactant on which an enzym works.
the reactant on which an enzym works. substrat
thermal energi the total amount of kinet energi due to the random motion of atom or molecul in a bodi of matter; also call heat. [this] is energi in it most random .
the total amount of kinet energi due to the random motion of atom or molecul in a bodi of matter; also call heat. [this] is energi in it most random . thermal energi
thermodynam the studi of energi trans that occur in a collect of matter. see first law of [this]; second law of [this].
the studi of energi trans that occur in a collect of matter. see first law of [this]; second law of [this]. thermodynam
actin a globular protein that link into chains, two of which twist helic about each other,  microfila in muscl and other kind of cells.
a globular protein that link into chains, two of which twist helic about each other,  microfila in muscl and other kind of cells. actin
basal bodi a eukaryot cell structur consist of a 9 + 0 arrang of microtubul triplets. [this] may organ the microtubul assembl of a cilium or flagellum and is structur veri similar to a centriole.
a eukaryot cell structur consist of a 9 + 0 arrang of microtubul triplets. [this] may organ the microtubul assembl of a cilium or flagellum and is structur veri similar to a centriole. basal bodi
capsul (1) a sticki layer that surround the cell wall of some prokaryotes, protect the cell surfac and sometim help to glue the cell to surfaces. (2) the sporangium of a bryophyt (moss, liverwort, or hornwort).
(1) a sticki layer that surround the cell wall of some prokaryotes, protect the cell surfac and sometim help to glue the cell to surfaces. (2) the sporangium of a bryophyt (moss, liverwort, or hornwort). capsul
cell fraction the disrupt of a cell and separ of it part by centrifugation.
the disrupt of a cell and separ of it part by centrifugation. cell fraction
central vacuol a membran sac in a matur plant cell with divers role in reproduction, growth, and development.
a membran sac in a matur plant cell with divers role in reproduction, growth, and development. central vacuol
centriol a structur in the centrosom of an anim cell compos of a cylind of microtubul triplet arrang in a 9 + 0 pattern. a centrosom has a pair of [these].
a structur in the centrosom of an anim cell compos of a cylind of microtubul triplet arrang in a 9 + 0 pattern. a centrosom has a pair of [these]. centriol
centrosom structur present in the cytoplasm of anim cells, import dure cell division; function as a microtubule-organ center. [this] has two centrioles.
structur present in the cytoplasm of anim cells, import dure cell division; function as a microtubule-organ center. [this] has two centrioles. centrosom
chloroplast an organell found in plant and photosynthet protist that absorb sunlight and use it to drive the synthesi of organ compound from carbon dioxid and water.
an organell found in plant and photosynthet protist that absorb sunlight and use it to drive the synthesi of organ compound from carbon dioxid and water. chloroplast
chromatin the complex of dna and protein that make up a eukaryot chromosome. when the cell is not dividing, [this] exist in it dispers , as a mass of veri long, thin fiber that are not visibl with a light microscope.
the complex of dna and protein that make up a eukaryot chromosome. when the cell is not dividing, [this] exist in it dispers , as a mass of veri long, thin fiber that are not visibl with a light microscope. chromatin
chromosom a cellular structur carri genet material, found in the nucleus of eukaryot cells. each [this] consist of one veri long dna molecul and associ proteins. (a bacteri [this] usual consist of a singl circular dna molecul and associ proteins. it is found in the nucleoid region, which is not membran bounded.)
a cellular structur carri genet material, found in the nucleus of eukaryot cells. each [this] consist of one veri long dna molecul and associ proteins. (a bacteri [this] usual consist of a singl circular dna molecul and associ proteins. it is found in the nucleoid region, which is not membran bounded.) chromosom
cilium a short cellular appendag contain microtubules. a motil [this] is special for locomot and is  from a core of nine outer doublet microtubul and two inner singl microtubul (the “9 + 2” arrangement) ensheath in an extens of the plasma membrane. a primari [this] is usual nonmotil and play a sensori and signal role; it lack the two inner microtubul (the “9 + 0” arrangement).
a short cellular appendag contain microtubules. a motil [this] is special for locomot and is  from a core of nine outer doublet microtubul and two inner singl microtubul (the “9 + 2” arrangement) ensheath in an extens of the plasma membrane. a primari [this] is usual nonmotil and play a sensori and signal role; it lack the two inner microtubul (the “9 + 0” arrangement). cilium
contractil vacuol a membran sac that help move excess water out of certain freshwat protists.
a membran sac that help move excess water out of certain freshwat protists. contractil vacuol
crista an infold of the inner membran of a mitochondrion that hous electron transport chain and molecul of the enzym catalyz the synthesi of atp (atp synthase).
an infold of the inner membran of a mitochondrion that hous electron transport chain and molecul of the enzym catalyz the synthesi of atp (atp synthase). crista
cytoplasm the content of the cell, exclus of the nucleus and bound by the plasma membrane.
the content of the cell, exclus of the nucleus and bound by the plasma membrane. cytoplasm
cytoplasm stream a circular flow of cytoplasm, involv myosin and actin filaments, that speed the distribut of materi within cells.
a circular flow of cytoplasm, involv myosin and actin filaments, that speed the distribut of materi within cells. cytoplasm stream
cytoskeleton a network of microtubules, microfilaments, and intermedi filament that branch throughout the cytoplasm and serv a varieti of mechanical, transport, and signal functions.
a network of microtubules, microfilaments, and intermedi filament that branch throughout the cytoplasm and serv a varieti of mechanical, transport, and signal functions. cytoskeleton
cytosol the semifluid portion of the cytoplasm.
the semifluid portion of the cytoplasm. cytosol
desmosom a type of intercellular junction in anim cell that function as a rivet.
a type of intercellular junction in anim cell that function as a rivet. desmosom
dynein in cilia and flagella, a larg contractil protein extend from one microtubul doublet to the adjac doublet. atp hydrolysi drive chang in the shape of [this] that lead to bend of cilia and flagella.
in cilia and flagella, a larg contractil protein extend from one microtubul doublet to the adjac doublet. atp hydrolysi drive chang in the shape of [this] that lead to bend of cilia and flagella. dynein
electron microscop (em) a microscop that use magnet to focus an electron beam on or through a specimen,  in resolv power a thousandfold greater than that of a light microscope. a transmiss electron microscop (tem) is use to studi the intern structur of thin section of cells. a scan electron microscop (sem) is use to studi the fine detail of cell surfaces.
a microscop that use magnet to focus an electron beam on or through a specimen,  in resolv power a thousandfold greater than that of a light microscope. a transmiss electron microscop (tem) is use to studi the intern structur of thin section of cells. a scan electron microscop (sem) is use to studi the fine detail of cell surfaces. electron microscop (em)
endomembran system the collect of membran insid and around a eukaryot cell, relat either through direct physic contact or by the transfer of membran vesicles; includ the smooth and rough endoplasm reticulum, the golgi apparatus, lysosomes, and vacuoles.
the collect of membran insid and around a eukaryot cell, relat either through direct physic contact or by the transfer of membran vesicles; includ the smooth and rough endoplasm reticulum, the golgi apparatus, lysosomes, and vacuoles. endomembran system
endoplasm reticulum (er) an extens membran network in eukaryot cells, continu with the outer nuclear membran and compos of ribosome-stud (rough) and ribosome-fre (smooth) regions.
an extens membran network in eukaryot cells, continu with the outer nuclear membran and compos of ribosome-stud (rough) and ribosome-fre (smooth) regions. endoplasm reticulum (er)
extracellular matrix (ecm) the substanc in which anim cell are embedded, consist of protein and polysaccharid synthes and secret by cells.
the substanc in which anim cell are embedded, consist of protein and polysaccharid synthes and secret by cells. extracellular matrix (ecm)
fibronectin a glycoprotein that help anim cell attach to the extracellular matrix.
a glycoprotein that help anim cell attach to the extracellular matrix. fibronectin
flagellum a long cellular appendag special for locomotion. like motil cilia, eukaryot [these] have a core with nine outer doublet microtubul and two inner singl microtubul ensheath in an extens of the plasma membrane. prokaryot [these] have a differ structure.
a long cellular appendag special for locomotion. like motil cilia, eukaryot [these] have a core with nine outer doublet microtubul and two inner singl microtubul ensheath in an extens of the plasma membrane. prokaryot [these] have a differ structure. flagellum
food vacuol a membran sac  by phagocytosi of microorgan or particl to be use as food by the cell.
a membran sac  by phagocytosi of microorgan or particl to be use as food by the cell. food vacuol
gap junction a type of intercellular junction in anim that allow the passag of materi between cells.
a type of intercellular junction in anim that allow the passag of materi between cells. gap junction
glycoprotein a protein with one or more carbohydr coval attach to it.
a protein with one or more carbohydr coval attach to it. glycoprotein
golgi apparatus an organell in eukaryot cell consist of stack of flat membran sac that modify, store, and rout product of the endoplasm reticulum and synthes some products, notabl noncellulos carbohydrates.
an organell in eukaryot cell consist of stack of flat membran sac that modify, store, and rout product of the endoplasm reticulum and synthes some products, notabl noncellulos carbohydrates. golgi apparatus
granum a stack of membrane-bound thylakoid in the chloroplast. [these] function in the light reaction of photosynthesis.
a stack of membrane-bound thylakoid in the chloroplast. [these] function in the light reaction of photosynthesis. granum
integrin in anim cells, a transmembran receptor protein that interconnect the extracellular matrix and the cytoskeleton.
in anim cells, a transmembran receptor protein that interconnect the extracellular matrix and the cytoskeleton. integrin
intermedi filament a compon of the cytoskeleton that includ filament intermedi in size between microtubul and microfilaments.
a compon of the cytoskeleton that includ filament intermedi in size between microtubul and microfilaments. intermedi filament
light microscop (lm) an optic instrument with lens that refract (bend) visibl light to magnifi imag of specimens.
an optic instrument with lens that refract (bend) visibl light to magnifi imag of specimens. light microscop (lm)
lysosom a membrane-enclos sac of hydrolyt enzym found in the cytoplasm of anim cell and some protists.
a membrane-enclos sac of hydrolyt enzym found in the cytoplasm of anim cell and some protists. lysosom
microfila a cabl compos of actin protein in the cytoplasm of almost everi eukaryot cell, make up part of the cytoskeleton and act alon or with myosin to caus cell contraction; also known as an actin filament.
a cabl compos of actin protein in the cytoplasm of almost everi eukaryot cell, make up part of the cytoskeleton and act alon or with myosin to caus cell contraction; also known as an actin filament. microfila
microtubul a hollow rod compos of tubulin protein that make up part of the cytoskeleton in all eukaryot cell and is found in cilia and flagella.
a hollow rod compos of tubulin protein that make up part of the cytoskeleton in all eukaryot cell and is found in cilia and flagella. microtubul
middl lamella in plants, a thin layer of adhes extracellular material, primarili pectins, found between the primari wall of adjac young cells.
in plants, a thin layer of adhes extracellular material, primarili pectins, found between the primari wall of adjac young cells. middl lamella
mitochondri matrix the compart of the mitochondrion enclos by the inner membran and contain enzym and substrat for the citric acid cycle.
the compart of the mitochondrion enclos by the inner membran and contain enzym and substrat for the citric acid cycle. mitochondri matrix
mitochondrion an organell in eukaryot cell that serv as the site of cellular respiration.
an organell in eukaryot cell that serv as the site of cellular respiration. mitochondrion
motor protein a protein that interact with cytoskelet element and other cell components, produc movement of the whole cell or part of the cell.
a protein that interact with cytoskelet element and other cell components, produc movement of the whole cell or part of the cell. motor protein
nuclear envelop the doubl membran in a eukaryot cell that enclos the nucleus, separ it from the cytoplasm.
the doubl membran in a eukaryot cell that enclos the nucleus, separ it from the cytoplasm. nuclear envelop
nuclear lamina a netlik array of protein filament line the inner surfac of the nuclear envelope; it help maintain the shape of the nucleus.
a netlik array of protein filament line the inner surfac of the nuclear envelope; it help maintain the shape of the nucleus. nuclear lamina
nucleoid a dens region of dna in a prokaryot cell.
a dens region of dna in a prokaryot cell. nucleoid
nucleolus a special structur in the nucleus, consist of chromatin region contain ribosom rna gene along with ribosom protein import from the cytoplasm site of rrna synthesi and ribosom subunit assembly.
a special structur in the nucleus, consist of chromatin region contain ribosom rna gene along with ribosom protein import from the cytoplasm site of rrna synthesi and ribosom subunit assembly. nucleolus
organell ani of sever membrane-enclos structur with special functions, suspend in the cytosol of eukaryot cells.
ani of sever membrane-enclos structur with special functions, suspend in the cytosol of eukaryot cells. organell
peroxisom an organell contain enzym that transfer hydrogen (h2) from various substrat to oxygen (o2), produc and then degrad hydrogen peroxid (h2o2).
an organell contain enzym that transfer hydrogen (h2) from various substrat to oxygen (o2), produc and then degrad hydrogen peroxid (h2o2). peroxisom
phagocytosi a type of endocytosi in which larg particul substanc are taken up by a cell. it is carri out by some protist and by certain immun cell of anim (in mammals, main macrophages, neutrophils, and dendrit cells).
a type of endocytosi in which larg particul substanc are taken up by a cell. it is carri out by some protist and by certain immun cell of anim (in mammals, main macrophages, neutrophils, and dendrit cells). phagocytosi
plasma membran the membran at the boundari of everi cell that act as a select barrier, regul the cell chemic composition.
the membran at the boundari of everi cell that act as a select barrier, regul the cell chemic composition. plasma membran
plasmodesma an open channel in the cell wall of a plant through which strand of cytosol connect from an adjac cell.
an open channel in the cell wall of a plant through which strand of cytosol connect from an adjac cell. plasmodesma
plastid one of a famili of close relat organell that includ chloroplasts, chromoplasts, and amyloplast (leucoplasts). [these] are found in cell of photosynthet organisms.
one of a famili of close relat organell that includ chloroplasts, chromoplasts, and amyloplast (leucoplasts). [these] are found in cell of photosynthet organisms. plastid
primari cell wall in plants, a relat thin and flexibl layer first secret by a young cell.
in plants, a relat thin and flexibl layer first secret by a young cell. primari cell wall
proteoglycan a glycoprotein consist of a small core protein with mani carbohydr chain attached, found in the extracellular matrix of anim cells. [this] may consist of up to 95% carbohydrate.
a glycoprotein consist of a small core protein with mani carbohydr chain attached, found in the extracellular matrix of anim cells. [this] may consist of up to 95% carbohydrate. proteoglycan
pseudopodium a cellular extens of amoeboid cell use in move and feeding.
a cellular extens of amoeboid cell use in move and feeding. pseudopodium
ribosom rna (rrna) the most abund type of rna, which togeth with protein make up ribosomes.
the most abund type of rna, which togeth with protein make up ribosomes. ribosom rna (rrna)
ribosom a complex of rrna and protein molecul that function as a site of protein synthesi in the cytoplasm; consist of a larg and a small subunit. in eukaryot cells, each subunit is assembl in the nucleolus.
a complex of rrna and protein molecul that function as a site of protein synthesi in the cytoplasm; consist of a larg and a small subunit. in eukaryot cells, each subunit is assembl in the nucleolus. ribosom
rough er that portion of the endoplasm reticulum stud with ribosomes.
that portion of the endoplasm reticulum stud with ribosomes. rough er
scan electron microscop (sem) a microscop that use an electron beam to scan the surfac of a sampl to studi detail of it topography.
a microscop that use an electron beam to scan the surfac of a sampl to studi detail of it topography. scan electron microscop (sem)
secondari cell wall in plants, a strong and durabl matrix often deposit in sever lamin layer for cell protect and support.
in plants, a strong and durabl matrix often deposit in sever lamin layer for cell protect and support. secondari cell wall
smooth er that portion of the endoplasm reticulum that is free of ribosomes.
that portion of the endoplasm reticulum that is free of ribosomes. smooth er
stroma within the chloroplast, the dens fluid of the chloroplast surround the thylakoid membrane; involv in the synthesi of organ molecul from carbon dioxid and water.
within the chloroplast, the dens fluid of the chloroplast surround the thylakoid membrane; involv in the synthesi of organ molecul from carbon dioxid and water. stroma
thylakoid a flatten membran sac insid a chloroplast. [these] exist in an interconnect system in the chloroplast and contain the molecular “machinery” use to convert light energi to chemic energy.
a flatten membran sac insid a chloroplast. [these] exist in an interconnect system in the chloroplast and contain the molecular “machinery” use to convert light energi to chemic energy. thylakoid
tight junction a type of intercellular junction in anim cell that prevent the leakag of materi between cells.
a type of intercellular junction in anim cell that prevent the leakag of materi between cells. tight junction
transmiss electron microscop (tem) a microscop that pass an electron beam through veri thin section and is primarili use to studi the intern ultrastructur of cells.
a microscop that pass an electron beam through veri thin section and is primarili use to studi the intern ultrastructur of cells. transmiss electron microscop (tem)
transport vesicl a tini membran sac in a cell cytoplasm carri molecul produc by the cell.
a tini membran sac in a cell cytoplasm carri molecul produc by the cell. transport vesicl
vacuol a membrane-bound vesicl whose function vari in differ kind of cells.
a membrane-bound vesicl whose function vari in differ kind of cells. vacuol
vesicl a sac made of membran in the cytoplasm.
a sac made of membran in the cytoplasm. vesicl
 transport the movement of a substanc across a cell membrane, with an expenditur of energy, against it concentr or electrochem gradient; mediat by specif transport proteins.
the movement of a substanc across a cell membrane, with an expenditur of energy, against it concentr or electrochem gradient; mediat by specif transport proteins.  transport
amphipath have both a hydrophil region and a hydrophob region.
have both a hydrophil region and a hydrophob region. amphipath
aquaporin a channel protein in the plasma membran of a plant, animal, or microorgan cell that specif facilit osmosis, the diffus of water across the membrane.
a channel protein in the plasma membran of a plant, animal, or microorgan cell that specif facilit osmosis, the diffus of water across the membrane. aquaporin
concentr gradient a region along which the densiti of a chemic substanc increas or decreases.
a region along which the densiti of a chemic substanc increas or decreases. concentr gradient
diffus the spontan movement of a substanc down it concentr gradient, from a region where it is more concentr to a region where it is less concentrated.
the spontan movement of a substanc down it concentr gradient, from a region where it is more concentr to a region where it is less concentrated. diffus
electrochem gradient the diffus gradient of an ion, which is affect by both the concentr differ of the ion across a membran (a chemic force) and the ion tendenc to move relat to the membran potenti (an electr force).
the diffus gradient of an ion, which is affect by both the concentr differ of the ion across a membran (a chemic force) and the ion tendenc to move relat to the membran potenti (an electr force). electrochem gradient
electrogen pump an ion transport protein that generat voltag across a membrane.
an ion transport protein that generat voltag across a membrane. electrogen pump
endocytosi cellular uptak of biolog molecul and particul matter via at of new vesicl from the plasma membrane.
cellular uptak of biolog molecul and particul matter via at of new vesicl from the plasma membrane. endocytosi
exocytosi the cellular secret of biolog molecul by the fusion of vesicl contain them with the plasma membrane.
the cellular secret of biolog molecul by the fusion of vesicl contain them with the plasma membrane. exocytosi
facilit diffus the spontan passag of molecul or ion across a biolog membran with the assist of specif transmembran transport proteins.
the spontan passag of molecul or ion across a biolog membran with the assist of specif transmembran transport proteins. facilit diffus
flaccid limp. lack in stiff or firmness, as in a plant cell in surround where there is no tendenc for water to enter the cell.
limp. lack in stiff or firmness, as in a plant cell in surround where there is no tendenc for water to enter the cell. flaccid
gate channel a transmembran protein channel that open or close in respons to a particular stimulus.
a transmembran protein channel that open or close in respons to a particular stimulus. gate channel
glycogen an extens branch glucos storag polysaccharid found in the liver and muscl of animals; the anim equival of starch.
an extens branch glucos storag polysaccharid found in the liver and muscl of animals; the anim equival of starch. glycogen
glycolipid a lipid with coval attach carbohydrate(s).
a lipid with coval attach carbohydrate(s). glycolipid
hyperton refer to a solut that, when surround a cell, will caus the cell to lose water.
refer to a solut that, when surround a cell, will caus the cell to lose water. hyperton
hypoton refer to a solut that, when surround a cell, will caus the cell to take up water.
refer to a solut that, when surround a cell, will caus the cell to take up water. hypoton
integr protein typic a transmembran protein with hydrophob region that extend into and often complet span the hydrophob interior of the membran and with hydrophil region in contact with the aqueous solut on either side of the membran (or line the channel in the case of a channel protein).
typic a transmembran protein with hydrophob region that extend into and often complet span the hydrophob interior of the membran and with hydrophil region in contact with the aqueous solut on either side of the membran (or line the channel in the case of a channel protein). integr protein
ion channel a transmembran protein channel that allow a specif ion to flow across the membran down it concentr gradient.
a transmembran protein channel that allow a specif ion to flow across the membran down it concentr gradient. ion channel
isoton refer to a solut that, when surround a cell, has no effect on the passag of water into or out of the cell.
refer to a solut that, when surround a cell, has no effect on the passag of water into or out of the cell. isoton
ligand a molecul that  specif to anoth molecule, usual a larger one.
a molecul that  specif to anoth molecule, usual a larger one. ligand
low-dens lipoprotein (ldl) a particl in the blood made up of cholesterol and other lipid surround by a singl layer of phospholipid in which protein are embedded. [this] carri more cholesterol than a relat lipoprotein, hdl, and high [this] level in the blood correl with a tendenc to develop  blood vessel and heart disease.
a particl in the blood made up of cholesterol and other lipid surround by a singl layer of phospholipid in which protein are embedded. [this] carri more cholesterol than a relat lipoprotein, hdl, and high [this] level in the blood correl with a tendenc to develop  blood vessel and heart disease. low-dens lipoprotein (ldl)
membran potenti the differ in electr charg (voltage) across a cell plasma membran due to the differenti distribut of ions. [this] affect the  of excit cell and the transmembran movement of all charg substances.
the differ in electr charg (voltage) across a cell plasma membran due to the differenti distribut of ions. [this] affect the  of excit cell and the transmembran movement of all charg substances. membran potenti
myosin a type of protein filament that act as a motor protein with actin filament to caus cell contraction.
a type of protein filament that act as a motor protein with actin filament to caus cell contraction. myosin
osmoregul regul of solut concentr and water balanc by a cell or organism.
regul of solut concentr and water balanc by a cell or organism. osmoregul
osmosi the diffus of water across a select permeabl membrane.
the diffus of water across a select permeabl membrane. osmosi
passiv transport the diffus of a substanc across a biolog membran with no expenditur of energy.
the diffus of a substanc across a biolog membran with no expenditur of energy. passiv transport
peripher protein a protein loos bound to the surfac of a membran or to part of an integr protein and not embed in the lipid bilayer.
a protein loos bound to the surfac of a membran or to part of an integr protein and not embed in the lipid bilayer. peripher protein
pinocytosi a type of endocytosi in which the cell ingest extracellular fluid and it dissolv solutes.
a type of endocytosi in which the cell ingest extracellular fluid and it dissolv solutes. pinocytosi
plasmolysi a phenomenon in wall cell in which the cytoplasm shrivel and the plasma membran pull away from the cell wall; occur when the cell lose water to a hyperton environment.
a phenomenon in wall cell in which the cytoplasm shrivel and the plasma membran pull away from the cell wall; occur when the cell lose water to a hyperton environment. plasmolysi
proton pump an  transport protein in a cell membran that use atp to transport hydrogen ion out of a cell against their concentr gradient, generat a membran potenti in the process.
an  transport protein in a cell membran that use atp to transport hydrogen ion out of a cell against their concentr gradient, generat a membran potenti in the process. proton pump
receptor-medi endocytosi the movement of specif molecul into a cell by the inward bud of membran vesicl contain protein with receptor site specif to the molecul be taken in; enabl a cell to acquir bulk quantiti of specif substances.
the movement of specif molecul into a cell by the inward bud of membran vesicl contain protein with receptor site specif to the molecul be taken in; enabl a cell to acquir bulk quantiti of specif substances. receptor-medi endocytosi
select permeabl a properti of biolog membran that allow them to regul the passag of substances.
a properti of biolog membran that allow them to regul the passag of substances. select permeabl
sodium-potassium pump a transport protein in the plasma membran of anim cell that  transport sodium out of the cell and potassium into the cell.
a transport protein in the plasma membran of anim cell that  transport sodium out of the cell and potassium into the cell. sodium-potassium pump
tonic the abil of a solut surround a cell to caus that cell to gain or lose water.
the abil of a solut surround a cell to caus that cell to gain or lose water. tonic
transport protein a transmembran protein that help a certain substanc or class of close relat substanc to cross the membrane.
a transmembran protein that help a certain substanc or class of close relat substanc to cross the membrane. transport protein
turgid swollen or distended, as in plant cells. (a wall cell becom [this] if it has a greater solut concentr than it surroundings,  in entri of water.)
swollen or distended, as in plant cells. (a wall cell becom [this] if it has a greater solut concentr than it surroundings,  in entri of water.) turgid
acetyl coa (acetyl coenzym a) the entri compound for the citric acid cycl in cellular respiration,  from a fragment of pyruv attach to a coenzyme.
the entri compound for the citric acid cycl in cellular respiration,  from a fragment of pyruv attach to a coenzyme. acetyl coa (acetyl coenzym a)
aerob respir a catabol pathway that consum oxygen (o2) and organ molecules, produc atp. this is the most effici catabol pathway and is carri out in most eukaryot cell and mani prokaryot organisms.
a catabol pathway that consum oxygen (o2) and organ molecules, produc atp. this is the most effici catabol pathway and is carri out in most eukaryot cell and mani prokaryot organisms. aerob respir
alcohol ferment glycolysi follow by the convers of pyruv to carbon dioxid and ethyl alcohol.
glycolysi follow by the convers of pyruv to carbon dioxid and ethyl alcohol. alcohol ferment
anaerob respir the use of inorgan molecul other than oxygen to accept electron at the “downhill” end of electron transport chains.
the use of inorgan molecul other than oxygen to accept electron at the “downhill” end of electron transport chains. anaerob respir
atp synthas a complex of sever membran protein that provid a port through which proton diffuse. this complex function in chemiosmosi with adjac electron transport chains, use the energi of a hydrogen ion (proton) concentr gradient to make atp. [these] are found in the inner mitochondri membran of eukaryot cell and in the plasma membran of prokaryotes.
a complex of sever membran protein that provid a port through which proton diffuse. this complex function in chemiosmosi with adjac electron transport chains, use the energi of a hydrogen ion (proton) concentr gradient to make atp. [these] are found in the inner mitochondri membran of eukaryot cell and in the plasma membran of prokaryotes. atp synthas
beta oxid a metabol sequenc that break fatti acid down to two-carbon fragment that enter the citric acid cycl as acetyl coa.
a metabol sequenc that break fatti acid down to two-carbon fragment that enter the citric acid cycl as acetyl coa. beta oxid
cellular respir the catabol pathway of aerob and anaerob respiration, which break down organ molecul for the product of atp.
the catabol pathway of aerob and anaerob respiration, which break down organ molecul for the product of atp. cellular respir
chemiosmosi an energy-coupl mechan that use energi store in the  of a hydrogen ion gradient across a membran to drive cellular work, such as the synthesi of atp. most atp synthesi in cell occur by [this].
an energy-coupl mechan that use energi store in the  of a hydrogen ion gradient across a membran to drive cellular work, such as the synthesi of atp. most atp synthesi in cell occur by [this]. chemiosmosi
citric acid cycl a chemic cycl involv eight step that complet the metabol breakdown of glucos molecul begun in glycolysi by oxid pyruv to carbon dioxide; occur within the mitochondrion in eukaryot cell and in the cytosol of prokaryotes; the second major stage in cellular respiration.
a chemic cycl involv eight step that complet the metabol breakdown of glucos molecul begun in glycolysi by oxid pyruv to carbon dioxide; occur within the mitochondrion in eukaryot cell and in the cytosol of prokaryotes; the second major stage in cellular respiration. citric acid cycl
cytochrom an iron-contain protein that is a compon of electron transport chain in the mitochondria and chloroplast of eukaryot cell and the plasma membran of prokaryot cells.
an iron-contain protein that is a compon of electron transport chain in the mitochondria and chloroplast of eukaryot cell and the plasma membran of prokaryot cells. cytochrom
electron transport chain a sequenc of electron carrier molecul (membran proteins) that shuttl electron dure the redox reaction that releas energi use to make atp.
a sequenc of electron carrier molecul (membran proteins) that shuttl electron dure the redox reaction that releas energi use to make atp. electron transport chain
facult anaerob an organ that make atp by aerob respir if oxygen is present but that switch to anaerob respir or ferment if oxygen is not present.
an organ that make atp by aerob respir if oxygen is present but that switch to anaerob respir or ferment if oxygen is not present. facult anaerob
ferment a catabol process that make a limit amount of atp from glucos without an electron transport chain and that produc a characterist end product, such as ethyl alcohol or lactic acid.
a catabol process that make a limit amount of atp from glucos without an electron transport chain and that produc a characterist end product, such as ethyl alcohol or lactic acid. ferment
glycolysi the split of glucos into pyruvate. [this] occur in almost all live cells, serv as the start point for ferment or cellular respiration.
the split of glucos into pyruvate. [this] occur in almost all live cells, serv as the start point for ferment or cellular respiration. glycolysi
lactic acid ferment glycolysi follow by the convers of pyruv to lactate, with no releas of carbon dioxide.
glycolysi follow by the convers of pyruv to lactate, with no releas of carbon dioxide. lactic acid ferment
nad+ (nicotinamid adenin dinucleotide) a coenzym that can accept an electron and act as an electron carrier in the electron transport chain.
a coenzym that can accept an electron and act as an electron carrier in the electron transport chain. nad+ (nicotinamid adenin dinucleotide)
oblig anaerob an organ that onli carri out ferment or anaerob respiration. such organ cannot use oxygen and in fact may be poison by it.
an organ that onli carri out ferment or anaerob respiration. such organ cannot use oxygen and in fact may be poison by it. oblig anaerob
oxid the loss of electron from a substanc involv in a redox reaction.
the loss of electron from a substanc involv in a redox reaction. oxid
oxid phosphoryl the product of atp use energi deriv from the redox reaction of an electron transport chain; the third major stage of cellular respiration.
the product of atp use energi deriv from the redox reaction of an electron transport chain; the third major stage of cellular respiration. oxid phosphoryl
oxid agent the electron acceptor in a redox reaction.
the electron acceptor in a redox reaction. oxid agent
proton-mot forc the potenti energi store in the  of an electrochem gradient, generat by the pump of hydrogen ion across a biolog membran dure chemiosmosis.
the potenti energi store in the  of an electrochem gradient, generat by the pump of hydrogen ion across a biolog membran dure chemiosmosis. proton-mot forc
reduc agent the electron donor in a redox reaction.
the electron donor in a redox reaction. reduc agent
reduct the addit of electron to a substanc involv in a redox reaction.
the addit of electron to a substanc involv in a redox reaction. reduct
substrate-level phosphoryl the at of atp by an enzym direct transfer a phosphat group to adp from an intermedi substrat in catabolism.
the at of atp by an enzym direct transfer a phosphat group to adp from an intermedi substrat in catabolism. substrate-level phosphoryl
absorpt spectrum the rang of a pigment abil to absorb various wavelength of light; also a graph of such a range.
the rang of a pigment abil to absorb various wavelength of light; also a graph of such a range. absorpt spectrum
action spectrum a graph that profil the relat effect of differ wavelength of radiat in drive a particular process.
a graph that profil the relat effect of differ wavelength of radiat in drive a particular process. action spectrum
autotroph an organ that obtain organ food molecul without eat other organ or substanc deriv from other organisms. [these] use energi from the sun or from the oxid of inorgan substanc to make organ molecul from inorgan ones.
an organ that obtain organ food molecul without eat other organ or substanc deriv from other organisms. [these] use energi from the sun or from the oxid of inorgan substanc to make organ molecul from inorgan ones. autotroph
bundle-sheath cell in c4 plants, a type of photosynthet cell arrang into tight pack sheath around the vein of a leaf.
in c4 plants, a type of photosynthet cell arrang into tight pack sheath around the vein of a leaf. bundle-sheath cell
c3 plant a plant that use the calvin cycl for the initi step that incorpor co2 into organ material,  a three-carbon compound as the first stabl intermediate.
a plant that use the calvin cycl for the initi step that incorpor co2 into organ material,  a three-carbon compound as the first stabl intermediate. c3 plant
c4 plant a plant in which the calvin cycl is preced by reaction that incorpor co2 into a four-carbon compound, the end product of which suppli co2 for the calvin cycle.
a plant in which the calvin cycl is preced by reaction that incorpor co2 into a four-carbon compound, the end product of which suppli co2 for the calvin cycle. c4 plant
calvin cycl the second of two major stage in photosynthesi (follow the light reactions), involv fixat of atmospher co2 and reduct of the fix carbon into carbohydrate.
the second of two major stage in photosynthesi (follow the light reactions), involv fixat of atmospher co2 and reduct of the fix carbon into carbohydrate. calvin cycl
cam plant a plant that use crassulacean acid metabolism, an adapt for photosynthesi in arid conditions. in this process, carbon dioxid enter open stomata dure the night is convert to organ acids, which releas co2 for the calvin cycl dure the day, when stomata are closed.
a plant that use crassulacean acid metabolism, an adapt for photosynthesi in arid conditions. in this process, carbon dioxid enter open stomata dure the night is convert to organ acids, which releas co2 for the calvin cycl dure the day, when stomata are closed. cam plant
carbon fixat the initi incorpor of carbon from co2 into an organ compound by an autotroph organ (a plant, anoth photosynthet organism, or a chemoautotroph prokaryote).
the initi incorpor of carbon from co2 into an organ compound by an autotroph organ (a plant, anoth photosynthet organism, or a chemoautotroph prokaryote). carbon fixat
carotenoid an accessori pigment, either yellow or orange, in the chloroplast of plant and in some prokaryotes. by absorb wavelength of light that chlorophyl cannot, [these] broaden the spectrum of color that can drive photosynthesis.
an accessori pigment, either yellow or orange, in the chloroplast of plant and in some prokaryotes. by absorb wavelength of light that chlorophyl cannot, [these] broaden the spectrum of color that can drive photosynthesis. carotenoid
chlorophyl a green pigment locat within the chloroplast of plant and alga and in the membran of certain prokaryotes. [this] a particip direct in the light reactions, which convert solar energi to chemic energy.
a green pigment locat within the chloroplast of plant and alga and in the membran of certain prokaryotes. [this] a particip direct in the light reactions, which convert solar energi to chemic energy. chlorophyl
chlorophyl a a photosynthet pigment that particip direct in the light reactions, which convert solar energi to chemic energy.
a photosynthet pigment that particip direct in the light reactions, which convert solar energi to chemic energy. chlorophyl a
chlorophyl b an accessori photosynthet pigment that transfer energi to chlorophyl a.
an accessori photosynthet pigment that transfer energi to chlorophyl a. chlorophyl b
crassulacean acid metabol (cam) an adapt for photosynthesi in arid conditions, first discov in the famili crassulaceae. in this process, a plant take up co2 and incorpor it into a varieti of organ acid at night; dure the day, co2 is releas from organ acid for use in the calvin cycle.
an adapt for photosynthesi in arid conditions, first discov in the famili crassulaceae. in this process, a plant take up co2 and incorpor it into a varieti of organ acid at night; dure the day, co2 is releas from organ acid for use in the calvin cycle. crassulacean acid metabol (cam)
cyclic electron flow a rout of electron flow dure the light reaction of photosynthesi that involv onli photosystem i and that produc atp but not nadph or o2.
a rout of electron flow dure the light reaction of photosynthesi that involv onli photosystem i and that produc atp but not nadph or o2. cyclic electron flow
electromagnet spectrum the entir spectrum of electromagnet radiat rang in wavelength from less than a nanomet to more than a kilometer.
the entir spectrum of electromagnet radiat rang in wavelength from less than a nanomet to more than a kilometer. electromagnet spectrum
glyceraldehyde-3-phosph (g3p) a three-carbon carbohydr that is the direct product of the calvin cycle; it is also an intermedi in glycolysis.
a three-carbon carbohydr that is the direct product of the calvin cycle; it is also an intermedi in glycolysis. glyceraldehyde-3-phosph (g3p)
heterotroph an organ that obtain organ food molecul by eat other organ or substanc deriv from them.
an organ that obtain organ food molecul by eat other organ or substanc deriv from them. heterotroph
leaf the main photosynthet organ of vascular plants.
the main photosynthet organ of vascular plants. leaf
light reaction the first of two major stage in photosynthesi (preced the calvin cycle). these reactions, which occur on the thylakoid membran of the chloroplast or on membran of certain prokaryotes, convert solar energi to the chemic energi of atp and nadph, releas oxygen in the process.
the first of two major stage in photosynthesi (preced the calvin cycle). these reactions, which occur on the thylakoid membran of the chloroplast or on membran of certain prokaryotes, convert solar energi to the chemic energi of atp and nadph, releas oxygen in the process. light reaction
light-harvest complex a complex of protein associ with pigment molecul (includ chlorophyl a, chlorophyl b, and carotenoids) that captur light energi and transfer it to reaction-cent pigment in a photosystem.
a complex of protein associ with pigment molecul (includ chlorophyl a, chlorophyl b, and carotenoids) that captur light energi and transfer it to reaction-cent pigment in a photosystem. light-harvest complex
linear electron flow a rout of electron flow dure the light reaction of photosynthesi that involv both photosystem (i and ii) and produc atp, nadph, and o2. the net electron flow is from h2o to nadp+.
a rout of electron flow dure the light reaction of photosynthesi that involv both photosystem (i and ii) and produc atp, nadph, and o2. the net electron flow is from h2o to nadp+. linear electron flow
mesophyl the ground tissu of a leaf, sandwich between the upper and lower epidermi and special for photosynthesis.
the ground tissu of a leaf, sandwich between the upper and lower epidermi and special for photosynthesis. mesophyl
mesophyl cell in c4 plants, a type of loos arrang photosynthet cell locat between the bundl sheath and the leaf surface.
in c4 plants, a type of loos arrang photosynthet cell locat between the bundl sheath and the leaf surface. mesophyl cell
nadp+ (nicotinamid adenin dinucleotid phosphate) an electron acceptor that, as nadph, temporarili store energ electron produc dure the light reactions.
an electron acceptor that, as nadph, temporarili store energ electron produc dure the light reactions. nadp+ (nicotinamid adenin dinucleotid phosphate)
pep carboxylas an enzym that add co2 to phosphoenolpyruv (pep) to  oxaloacet in c4 plants. it act prior to photosynthesis.
an enzym that add co2 to phosphoenolpyruv (pep) to  oxaloacet in c4 plants. it act prior to photosynthesis. pep carboxylas
photoautotroph an organ that har light energi to drive the synthesi of organ compound from carbon dioxide.
an organ that har light energi to drive the synthesi of organ compound from carbon dioxide. photoautotroph
photon a quantum, or discret quantity, of light energi that behav as if it were a particle.
a quantum, or discret quantity, of light energi that behav as if it were a particle. photon
photophosphoryl the process of generat atp from adp and phosphat by mean of a proton-mot forc generat across the thylakoid membran of the chloroplast or the membran of certain prokaryot dure the light reaction of photosynthesis.
the process of generat atp from adp and phosphat by mean of a proton-mot forc generat across the thylakoid membran of the chloroplast or the membran of certain prokaryot dure the light reaction of photosynthesis. photophosphoryl
photorespir a metabol pathway that consum oxygen and atp, releas carbon dioxide, and decreas photosynthet output. [this] general occur on hot, dry, bright days, when stomata close and the oxygen concentr in the leaf exceed that of carbon dioxide.
a metabol pathway that consum oxygen and atp, releas carbon dioxide, and decreas photosynthet output. [this] general occur on hot, dry, bright days, when stomata close and the oxygen concentr in the leaf exceed that of carbon dioxide. photorespir
photosynthesi the convers of light energi to chemic energi that is store in sugar or other organ compounds; occur in plants, algae, and certain prokaryotes.
the convers of light energi to chemic energi that is store in sugar or other organ compounds; occur in plants, algae, and certain prokaryotes. photosynthesi
photosystem a light-captur unit locat in the thylakoid membran of the chloroplast or in the membran of some prokaryotes, consist of a reaction-cent complex surround by numer light-harvest complexes. there are two type of [these], i and ii; they absorb light best at differ wavelengths.
a light-captur unit locat in the thylakoid membran of the chloroplast or in the membran of some prokaryotes, consist of a reaction-cent complex surround by numer light-harvest complexes. there are two type of [these], i and ii; they absorb light best at differ wavelengths. photosystem
photosystem i (ps i) one of two light-captur unit in a chloroplast thylakoid membran or in the membran of some prokaryotes; it has two molecul of p700 chlorophyl a at it reaction center.
one of two light-captur unit in a chloroplast thylakoid membran or in the membran of some prokaryotes; it has two molecul of p700 chlorophyl a at it reaction center. photosystem i (ps i)
photosystem ii (ps ii) one of two light-captur unit in a chloroplast thylakoid membran or in the membran of some prokaryotes; it has two molecul of p680 chlorophyl a at it reaction center.
one of two light-captur unit in a chloroplast thylakoid membran or in the membran of some prokaryotes; it has two molecul of p680 chlorophyl a at it reaction center. photosystem ii (ps ii)
primari electron acceptor in the thylakoid membran of a chloroplast or in the membran of some prokaryotes, a special molecul that share the reaction-cent complex with a pair of chlorophyl a molecul and that accept an electron from them.
in the thylakoid membran of a chloroplast or in the membran of some prokaryotes, a special molecul that share the reaction-cent complex with a pair of chlorophyl a molecul and that accept an electron from them. primari electron acceptor
produc an organ that produc organ compound from co2 by har light energi (in photosynthesis) or by oxid inorgan chemic (in chemosynthet reaction carri out by some prokaryotes).
an organ that produc organ compound from co2 by har light energi (in photosynthesis) or by oxid inorgan chemic (in chemosynthet reaction carri out by some prokaryotes). produc
reaction-cent complex a complex of protein associ with a special pair of chlorophyl a molecul and a primari electron acceptor. locat central in a photosystem, this complex trigger the light reaction of photosynthesis. excit by light energy, the pair of chlorophyl donat an electron to the primari electron acceptor, which pass an electron to an electron transport chain.
a complex of protein associ with a special pair of chlorophyl a molecul and a primari electron acceptor. locat central in a photosystem, this complex trigger the light reaction of photosynthesis. excit by light energy, the pair of chlorophyl donat an electron to the primari electron acceptor, which pass an electron to an electron transport chain. reaction-cent complex
rubisco (ribulos bisphosph (rubp) carboxylase) the enzym that catalyz the first step of the calvin cycl (the addit of co2 to rubp).
the enzym that catalyz the first step of the calvin cycl (the addit of co2 to rubp). rubisco (ribulos bisphosph (rubp) carboxylase)
spectrophotomet an instrument that measur the proport of light of differ wavelength absorb and transmit by a pigment solution.
an instrument that measur the proport of light of differ wavelength absorb and transmit by a pigment solution. spectrophotomet
stoma a microscop pore surround by guard cell in the epidermi of leav and stem that allow gas exchang between the environ and the interior of the plant.
a microscop pore surround by guard cell in the epidermi of leav and stem that allow gas exchang between the environ and the interior of the plant. stoma
visibl light that portion of the electromagnet spectrum that can be detect as various color by the human eye, rang in wavelength from about 380 nm to about 750 nm.
that portion of the electromagnet spectrum that can be detect as various color by the human eye, rang in wavelength from about 380 nm to about 750 nm. visibl light
wavelength the distanc between crest of waves, such as those of the electromagnet spectrum.
the distanc between crest of waves, such as those of the electromagnet spectrum. wavelength
adenylyl cyclas an enzym that convert atp to cyclic amp in respons to a signal.
an enzym that convert atp to cyclic amp in respons to a signal. adenylyl cyclas
amplif the strengthen of stimulus energi dure transduction.
the strengthen of stimulus energi dure transduction. amplif
apoptosi a program of control cell suicide, which is brought about by signal that trigger the  of a cascad of suicid protein in the cell destin to die.
a program of control cell suicide, which is brought about by signal that trigger the  of a cascad of suicid protein in the cell destin to die. apoptosi
biofilm a surface-co coloni of one or more speci of prokaryot that engag in metabol cooperation.
a surface-co coloni of one or more speci of prokaryot that engag in metabol cooperation. biofilm
cyclic adenosin monophosph (camp) a ring-shap molecul made from atp that is a common intracellular signal molecul (second messenger) in eukaryot cells. it is also a regul of some bacteri operons.
a ring-shap molecul made from atp that is a common intracellular signal molecul (second messenger) in eukaryot cells. it is also a regul of some bacteri operons. cyclic adenosin monophosph (camp)
diacylglycerol (dag) a second messeng produc by the cleavag of a certain kind of phospholipid in the plasma membrane.
a second messeng produc by the cleavag of a certain kind of phospholipid in the plasma membrane. diacylglycerol (dag)
epinephrin a catecholamin that, when secret as a hormon by the adren medulla, mediat “fight-or-flight” respons to short-term stresses; also releas by some neuron as a neurotransmitter; also known as adrenaline.
a catecholamin that, when secret as a hormon by the adren medulla, mediat “fight-or-flight” respons to short-term stresses; also releas by some neuron as a neurotransmitter; also known as adrenaline. epinephrin
g protein a gtp- protein that relay signal from a plasma membran signal receptor, known as a [this]-coupl receptor, to other signal transduct protein insid the cell.
a gtp- protein that relay signal from a plasma membran signal receptor, known as a [this]-coupl receptor, to other signal transduct protein insid the cell. g protein
growth factor (1) a protein that must be present in the extracellular environ (cultur medium or anim body) for the growth and normal develop of certain type of cells. (2) a local regul that act on nearbi cell to stimul cell prolifer and differentiation.
(1) a protein that must be present in the extracellular environ (cultur medium or anim body) for the growth and normal develop of certain type of cells. (2) a local regul that act on nearbi cell to stimul cell prolifer and differentiation. growth factor
inositol trisphosph (ip3) a second messeng that function as an intermedi between certain nonsteroid hormon and a third messenger, a rise in cytoplasm ca2+ concentration.
a second messeng that function as an intermedi between certain nonsteroid hormon and a third messenger, a rise in cytoplasm ca2+ concentration. inositol trisphosph (ip3)
ligand-g ion channel a protein pore in cellular membran that open or close in respons to a signal chemic (it ligand), allow or  the flow of specif ions.
a protein pore in cellular membran that open or close in respons to a signal chemic (it ligand), allow or  the flow of specif ions. ligand-g ion channel
local regul a secret molecul that influenc cell near where it is secreted.
a secret molecul that influenc cell near where it is secreted. local regul
nitric oxid (no) a gas produc by mani type of cell that function as a local regul and as a neurotransmitter.
a gas produc by mani type of cell that function as a local regul and as a neurotransmitter. nitric oxid (no)
protein phosphatas an enzym that remov phosphat group from (dephosphorylates) proteins, often function to revers the effect of a protein kinase.
an enzym that remov phosphat group from (dephosphorylates) proteins, often function to revers the effect of a protein kinase. protein phosphatas
receptor tyrosin kinas a receptor protein in the plasma membrane, the cytoplasm (intracellular) part of which can catalyz the transfer of a phosphat group from atp to a tyrosin on anoth protein. [these] often respond to the  of a signal molecul by dimer and then phosphoryl a tyrosin on the cytoplasm portion of the other receptor in the dimer. the phosphoryl tyrosin on the receptor then  other signal transduct protein within the cell.
a receptor protein in the plasma membrane, the cytoplasm (intracellular) part of which can catalyz the transfer of a phosphat group from atp to a tyrosin on anoth protein. [these] often respond to the  of a signal molecul by dimer and then phosphoryl a tyrosin on the cytoplasm portion of the other receptor in the dimer. the phosphoryl tyrosin on the receptor then  other signal transduct protein within the cell. receptor tyrosin kinas
scaffold protein a type of larg relay protein to which sever other relay protein are simultan attached, increas the effici of signal transduction.
a type of larg relay protein to which sever other relay protein are simultan attached, increas the effici of signal transduction. scaffold protein
second messeng a small, nonprotein, water-solubl molecul or ion, such as a calcium ion (ca2+) or cyclic amp, that relay a signal to a cell interior in respons to a signal molecul bound by a signal receptor protein.
a small, nonprotein, water-solubl molecul or ion, such as a calcium ion (ca2+) or cyclic amp, that relay a signal to a cell interior in respons to a signal molecul bound by a signal receptor protein. second messeng
signal transduct the linkag of a mechanical, chemical, or electromagnet stimulus to a specif cellular response.
the linkag of a mechanical, chemical, or electromagnet stimulus to a specif cellular response. signal transduct
signal transduct pathway a seri of step link a mechan or chemic stimulus to a specif cellular response.
a seri of step link a mechan or chemic stimulus to a specif cellular response. signal transduct pathway
testosteron a steroid hormon requir for develop of the male reproduct system, spermatogenesis, and male secondari sex characteristics; the major androgen in mammals.
a steroid hormon requir for develop of the male reproduct system, spermatogenesis, and male secondari sex characteristics; the major androgen in mammals. testosteron
transcript factor a regulatori protein that  to dna and affect transcript of specif genes.
a regulatori protein that  to dna and affect transcript of specif genes. transcript factor
transduct (1) a type of horizont gene transfer in which phage (viruses) carri bacteri dna from one host cell to another. (2) in cellular communication, the convers of a signal from outsid the cell to a  that can bring about a specif cellular response.
(1) a type of horizont gene transfer in which phage (viruses) carri bacteri dna from one host cell to another. (2) in cellular communication, the convers of a signal from outsid the cell to a  that can bring about a specif cellular response. transduct
yeast single-cel fungus that reproduc asexu by binari fission or by the pinch of small bud off a parent cell; some speci exhibit cell fusion between differ mate types.
single-cel fungus that reproduc asexu by binari fission or by the pinch of small bud off a parent cell; some speci exhibit cell fusion between differ mate types. yeast
allel ani of the altern version of a gene that produc distinguish phenotyp effects.
ani of the altern version of a gene that produc distinguish phenotyp effects. allel
amniocentesi a techniqu of prenat diagnosi in which amniot fluid, obtain by aspir from a needl insert into the uterus, is analyz to detect certain genet and congenit defect in the fetus.
a techniqu of prenat diagnosi in which amniot fluid, obtain by aspir from a needl insert into the uterus, is analyz to detect certain genet and congenit defect in the fetus. amniocentesi
carrier in genetics, an individu who is heterozyg at a given genet locus, with one normal allel and one recess allele. the heterozygot is phenotyp domin for the charact determin by the gene but can pass on the recess allel to offspring.
in genetics, an individu who is heterozyg at a given genet locus, with one normal allel and one recess allele. the heterozygot is phenotyp domin for the charact determin by the gene but can pass on the recess allel to offspring. carrier
charact an observ herit feature.
an observ herit feature. charact
chorion villus sampl (cvs) a techniqu of prenat diagnosi in which a small sampl of the fetal portion of the placenta is remov and analyz to detect certain genet and congenit defect in the fetus.
a techniqu of prenat diagnosi in which a small sampl of the fetal portion of the placenta is remov and analyz to detect certain genet and congenit defect in the fetus. chorion villus sampl (cvs)
codomin the situat in which the phenotyp of both allel are exhibit in the heterozygot becaus both allel affect the phenotyp in separate, distinguish ways.
the situat in which the phenotyp of both allel are exhibit in the heterozygot becaus both allel affect the phenotyp in separate, distinguish ways. codomin
complet domin the situat in which the phenotyp of the heterozygot and domin homozygot are indistinguishable.
the situat in which the phenotyp of the heterozygot and domin homozygot are indistinguishable. complet domin
cystic fibrosi a human genet disord caus by a recess allel for a chlorid channel protein; character by an excess secret of mucus and consequ vulner to infection; fatal if untreated.
a human genet disord caus by a recess allel for a chlorid channel protein; character by an excess secret of mucus and consequ vulner to infection; fatal if untreated. cystic fibrosi
dihybrid an organ that is heterozyg with respect to two gene of interest. all the offspr from a cross between parent doubli homozyg for differ allel are [these]. for example, parent of genotyp aabb and aabb produc a [this] of genotyp aabb.
an organ that is heterozyg with respect to two gene of interest. all the offspr from a cross between parent doubli homozyg for differ allel are [these]. for example, parent of genotyp aabb and aabb produc a [this] of genotyp aabb. dihybrid
domin allel an allel that is fulli express in the phenotyp of a heterozygote.
an allel that is fulli express in the phenotyp of a heterozygote. domin allel
epistasi a type of gene interact in which one gene alter the phenotyp effect of anoth gene that is independ inherited.
a type of gene interact in which one gene alter the phenotyp effect of anoth gene that is independ inherited. epistasi
f1 generat the first filial, or hybrid, offspr in a seri of genet crosses.
the first filial, or hybrid, offspr in a seri of genet crosses. f1 generat
f2 generat offspr  from interbreed of the hybrid f1 generation.
offspr  from interbreed of the hybrid f1 generation. f2 generat
genotyp the genet makeup, or set of alleles, of an organism.
the genet makeup, or set of alleles, of an organism. genotyp
heterozyg have two differ allel for a given gene.
have two differ allel for a given gene. heterozyg
homozyg have two ident allel for a given gene.
have two ident allel for a given gene. homozyg
huntington diseas a human genet diseas caus by a domin allele; character by uncontrol bodi movement and degener of the nervous system; usual fatal 10 to 20 year after the onset of symptoms.
a human genet diseas caus by a domin allele; character by uncontrol bodi movement and degener of the nervous system; usual fatal 10 to 20 year after the onset of symptoms. huntington diseas
hybrid in genetics, the mating, or crossing, of two true-breed varieties.
in genetics, the mating, or crossing, of two true-breed varieties. hybrid
incomplet domin the situat in which the phenotyp of heterozygot is intermedi between the phenotyp of individu homozyg for either allele.
the situat in which the phenotyp of heterozygot is intermedi between the phenotyp of individu homozyg for either allele. incomplet domin
law of independ assort mendel second law, state that each pair of allel segreg independ of each other pair dure gamet ation; appli when gene for two charact are locat on differ pair of homolog chromosomes.
mendel second law, state that each pair of allel segreg independ of each other pair dure gamet ation; appli when gene for two charact are locat on differ pair of homolog chromosomes. law of independ assort
law of segreg mendel first law, state that the two allel in a pair separ into differ gamet dure gamet ation.
mendel first law, state that the two allel in a pair separ into differ gamet dure gamet ation. law of segreg
monohybrid an organ that is heterozyg with respect to a singl gene of interest. all the offspr from a cross between parent homozyg for differ allel are [these]. for example, parent of genotyp aa and aa produc a [this] of genotyp aa.
an organ that is heterozyg with respect to a singl gene of interest. all the offspr from a cross between parent homozyg for differ allel are [these]. for example, parent of genotyp aa and aa produc a [this] of genotyp aa. monohybrid
multifactori refer to a phenotyp charact that is influenc by multipl gene and environment factors.
refer to a phenotyp charact that is influenc by multipl gene and environment factors. multifactori
norm of reaction the rang of phenotyp produc by a singl genotype, due to environment influences.
the rang of phenotyp produc by a singl genotype, due to environment influences. norm of reaction
p generat the parent individu from which offspr are deriv in studi of inheritance; [t] stand for “parental.”
the parent individu from which offspr are deriv in studi of inheritance; [t] stand for “parental.” p generat
pedigre a diagram of a famili tree show the occurr of herit charact in parent and offspr over multipl generations.
a diagram of a famili tree show the occurr of herit charact in parent and offspr over multipl generations. pedigre
phenotyp the physic and physiolog trait of an organism, which are determin by it genet makeup.
the physic and physiolog trait of an organism, which are determin by it genet makeup. phenotyp
pleiotropi the abil of a singl gene to have multipl effects.
the abil of a singl gene to have multipl effects. pleiotropi
polygen inherit an addit effect of two or more gene on a singl phenotyp character.
an addit effect of two or more gene on a singl phenotyp character. polygen inherit
punnett squar a diagram use in the studi of inherit to show the predict  of random fertil in genet crosses.
a diagram use in the studi of inherit to show the predict  of random fertil in genet crosses. punnett squar
quantit charact a herit featur that vari continu over a rang rather than in an either-or fashion.
a herit featur that vari continu over a rang rather than in an either-or fashion. quantit charact
recess allel an allel whose phenotyp effect is not observ in a heterozygote.
an allel whose phenotyp effect is not observ in a heterozygote. recess allel
sickle-cel diseas a human genet diseas caus by a recess allel that  in the substitut of a singl amino acid in a globin polypeptid that is part of the hemoglobin protein; character by de red blood cell (due to protein aggregation) that can lead to numer symptoms.
a human genet diseas caus by a recess allel that  in the substitut of a singl amino acid in a globin polypeptid that is part of the hemoglobin protein; character by de red blood cell (due to protein aggregation) that can lead to numer symptoms. sickle-cel diseas
tay-sach diseas a human genet diseas caus by a recess allel for a dysfunct enzyme, lead to accumul of certain lipid in the brain. seizures, blindness, and degener of motor and mental per usual becom manifest a few month after birth, follow by death within a few years.
a human genet diseas caus by a recess allel for a dysfunct enzyme, lead to accumul of certain lipid in the brain. seizures, blindness, and degener of motor and mental per usual becom manifest a few month after birth, follow by death within a few years. tay-sach diseas
testcross breed an organ of unknown genotyp with a homozyg recess individu to determin the unknown genotype. the ratio of phenotyp in the offspr reveal the unknown genotype.
breed an organ of unknown genotyp with a homozyg recess individu to determin the unknown genotype. the ratio of phenotyp in the offspr reveal the unknown genotype. testcross
trait ani detect variant in a genet character.
ani detect variant in a genet character. trait
true-breed refer to plant that produc offspr of the same varieti when they self-pollinate.
refer to plant that produc offspr of the same varieti when they self-pollinate. true-breed
aneuploidi a chromosom aberr in which one or more chromosom are present in extra copi or are defici in number.
a chromosom aberr in which one or more chromosom are present in extra copi or are defici in number. aneuploidi
barr bodi a dens object lie along the insid of the nuclear envelop in cell of femal mammals, repres a high condensed, in x chromosome.
a dens object lie along the insid of the nuclear envelop in cell of femal mammals, repres a high condensed, in x chromosome. barr bodi
chromosom theori of inherit a basic principl in biolog state that gene are locat on chromosom and that the behavior of chromosom dure meiosi account for inherit patterns.
a basic principl in biolog state that gene are locat on chromosom and that the behavior of chromosom dure meiosi account for inherit patterns. chromosom theori of inherit
cross over the reciproc exchang of genet materi between nonsist chromatid dure prophas i of meiosis.
the reciproc exchang of genet materi between nonsist chromatid dure prophas i of meiosis. cross over
cytogenet map a chart of a chromosom that locat gene with respect to chromosom featur distinguish in a microscope.
a chart of a chromosom that locat gene with respect to chromosom featur distinguish in a microscope. cytogenet map
dendrit one of usual numerous, short, high branch extens of a neuron that receiv signal from other neurons.
one of usual numerous, short, high branch extens of a neuron that receiv signal from other neurons. dendrit
down syndrom a human genet diseas caus by the presenc of an extra chromosom 21; character by mental retard and heart and respiratori defects.
a human genet diseas caus by the presenc of an extra chromosom 21; character by mental retard and heart and respiratori defects. down syndrom
duchenn muscular dystrophi a human genet diseas caus by a sex-link recess allele; character by progress weaken and a loss of muscl tissue.
a human genet diseas caus by a sex-link recess allele; character by progress weaken and a loss of muscl tissue. duchenn muscular dystrophi
duplic an aberr in chromosom structur due to fusion with a fragment from a homolog chromosome, such that a portion of a chromosom is duplicated.
an aberr in chromosom structur due to fusion with a fragment from a homolog chromosome, such that a portion of a chromosom is duplicated. duplic
genet map an order list of genet loci (gene or other genet markers) along a chromosome.
an order list of genet loci (gene or other genet markers) along a chromosome. genet map
genet recombin general term for the product of offspr with combin of trait that differ from those found in either parent.
general term for the product of offspr with combin of trait that differ from those found in either parent. genet recombin
genom imprint a phenomenon in which express of an allel in offspr depend on whether the allel is inherit from the male or femal parent.
a phenomenon in which express of an allel in offspr depend on whether the allel is inherit from the male or femal parent. genom imprint
hemophilia a human genet diseas caus by a sex-link recess allel  in the absenc of one or more blood-clot proteins; character by excess bleed follow injury.
a human genet diseas caus by a sex-link recess allel  in the absenc of one or more blood-clot proteins; character by excess bleed follow injury. hemophilia
invers an aberr in chromosom structur  from reattach of a chromosom fragment in a revers orient to the chromosom from which it originated.
an aberr in chromosom structur  from reattach of a chromosom fragment in a revers orient to the chromosom from which it originated. invers
linkag map a genet map base on the frequenc of recombin between marker dure cross over of homolog chromosomes.
a genet map base on the frequenc of recombin between marker dure cross over of homolog chromosomes. linkag map
link gene gene locat close enough togeth on a chromosom that they tend to be inherit together.
gene locat close enough togeth on a chromosom that they tend to be inherit together. link gene
map unit a unit of measur of the distanc between genes. one [this] is equival to a 1% recombin frequency.
a unit of measur of the distanc between genes. one [this] is equival to a 1% recombin frequency. map unit
monosom refer to a cell that has onli one copi of a particular chromosom instead of the normal two.
refer to a cell that has onli one copi of a particular chromosom instead of the normal two. monosom
nondisjunct an error in meiosi or mitosi in which member of a pair of homolog chromosom or a pair of sister chromatid fail to separ proper from each other.
an error in meiosi or mitosi in which member of a pair of homolog chromosom or a pair of sister chromatid fail to separ proper from each other. nondisjunct
parent type an offspr with a phenotyp that match one of the parent phenotypes; also refer to the phenotyp itself.
an offspr with a phenotyp that match one of the parent phenotypes; also refer to the phenotyp itself. parent type
polyploidi a chromosom alter in which the organ possess more than two complet chromosom sets. it is the  of an accid of cell division.
a chromosom alter in which the organ possess more than two complet chromosom sets. it is the  of an accid of cell division. polyploidi
sex-link gene a gene locat on a sex chromosom (usual the x chromosome),  in a distinct pattern of inheritance.
a gene locat on a sex chromosom (usual the x chromosome),  in a distinct pattern of inheritance. sex-link gene
transloc (1) an aberr in chromosom structur  from attach of a chromosom fragment to a nonhomolog chromosome. (2) dure protein synthesis, the third stage in the elong cycl when the rna carri the grow polypeptid move from the a site to the p site on the ribosome. (3) the transport of organ nutrient in the phloem of vascular plants.
(1) an aberr in chromosom structur  from attach of a chromosom fragment to a nonhomolog chromosome. (2) dure protein synthesis, the third stage in the elong cycl when the rna carri the grow polypeptid move from the a site to the p site on the ribosome. (3) the transport of organ nutrient in the phloem of vascular plants. transloc
trisom refer to a diploid cell that has three copi of a particular chromosom instead of the normal two.
refer to a diploid cell that has three copi of a particular chromosom instead of the normal two. trisom
wild type an individu with the phenotyp most common observ in natur populations; also refer to the phenotyp itself.
an individu with the phenotyp most common observ in natur populations; also refer to the phenotyp itself. wild type
anaphas the fourth stage of mitosis, in which the chromatid of each chromosom have separ and the daughter chromosom are move to the pole of the cell.
the fourth stage of mitosis, in which the chromatid of each chromosom have separ and the daughter chromosom are move to the pole of the cell. anaphas
anchorag depend the requir that a cell must be attach to a substratum in order to divide.
the requir that a cell must be attach to a substratum in order to divide. anchorag depend
aster a radial array of short microtubul that extend from each centrosom toward the plasma membran in an anim cell undergo mitosis.
a radial array of short microtubul that extend from each centrosom toward the plasma membran in an anim cell undergo mitosis. aster
bacteria one of two prokaryot domains, the other be archaea.
one of two prokaryot domains, the other be archaea. bacteria
benign tumor a mass of abnorm cell that remain at the site of it origin.
a mass of abnorm cell that remain at the site of it origin. benign tumor
binari fission a method of asexu reproduct by “divis in half.” in prokaryotes, [this] doe not involv mitosis; but in single-cel eukaryot that undergo [this], mitosi is part of the process.
a method of asexu reproduct by “divis in half.” in prokaryotes, [this] doe not involv mitosis; but in single-cel eukaryot that undergo [this], mitosi is part of the process. binari fission
cell cycl an order sequenc of event in the life of a cell, from it origin in the divis of a parent cell until it own divis into two; the eukaryot [this] is compos of interphas (includ g1, s, and g2 subphases) and m phase (includ mitosi and cytokinesis).
an order sequenc of event in the life of a cell, from it origin in the divis of a parent cell until it own divis into two; the eukaryot [this] is compos of interphas (includ g1, s, and g2 subphases) and m phase (includ mitosi and cytokinesis). cell cycl
cell cycl control system a cyclic oper set of molecul in the eukaryot cell that both trigger and coordin key event in the cell cycle.
a cyclic oper set of molecul in the eukaryot cell that both trigger and coordin key event in the cell cycle. cell cycl control system
cell divis the reproduct of cells.
the reproduct of cells. cell divis
cell plate a doubl membran across the midlin of a divid plant cell, between which the new cell wall  dure cytokinesis.
a doubl membran across the midlin of a divid plant cell, between which the new cell wall  dure cytokinesis. cell plate
centromer the special region of the chromosom where two sister chromatid are most close attached.
the special region of the chromosom where two sister chromatid are most close attached. centromer
checkpoint a control point in the cell cycl where stop and go-ahead signal can regul the cycle.
a control point in the cell cycl where stop and go-ahead signal can regul the cycle. checkpoint
cleavag (1) the process of cytokinesi in anim cells, character by pinch of the plasma membrane. (2) the success of rapid cell divis without signific growth dure earli embryon develop that convert the zygot to a ball of cells.
(1) the process of cytokinesi in anim cells, character by pinch of the plasma membrane. (2) the success of rapid cell divis without signific growth dure earli embryon develop that convert the zygot to a ball of cells. cleavag
cleavag furrow the first sign of cleavag in an anim cell; a shallow groov in the cell surfac near the old metaphas plate.
the first sign of cleavag in an anim cell; a shallow groov in the cell surfac near the old metaphas plate. cleavag furrow
cyclin a cellular protein that occur in a cyclic fluctuat concentr and that play an import role in regul the cell cycle.
a cellular protein that occur in a cyclic fluctuat concentr and that play an import role in regul the cell cycle. cyclin
cyclin-depend kinas (cdk) a protein kinas that is  onli when attach to a particular cyclin.
a protein kinas that is  onli when attach to a particular cyclin. cyclin-depend kinas (cdk)
cytokinesi the divis of the cytoplasm to  two separ daughter cell immedi after mitosis, meiosi i, or meiosi ii.
the divis of the cytoplasm to  two separ daughter cell immedi after mitosis, meiosi i, or meiosi ii. cytokinesi
density-depend inhibit the phenomenon observ in normal anim cell that caus them to stop divid when they come into contact with one another.
the phenomenon observ in normal anim cell that caus them to stop divid when they come into contact with one another. density-depend inhibit
g0 phase a nondivid state occupi by cell that have left the cell cycle.
a nondivid state occupi by cell that have left the cell cycle. g0 phase
g1 phase the first gap, or growth phase, of the cell cycle, consist of the portion of interphas befor dna synthesi begins.
the first gap, or growth phase, of the cell cycle, consist of the portion of interphas befor dna synthesi begins. g1 phase
g2 phase the second gap, or growth phase, of the cell cycle, consist of the portion of interphas after dna synthesi occurs.
the second gap, or growth phase, of the cell cycle, consist of the portion of interphas after dna synthesi occurs. g2 phase
gamet a haploid reproduct cell, such as an egg or sperm. [these] unit dure sexual reproduct to produc a diploid zygote.
a haploid reproduct cell, such as an egg or sperm. [these] unit dure sexual reproduct to produc a diploid zygote. gamet
interphas the period in the cell cycl when the cell is not dividing. dure [this], cellular metabol  is high, chromosom and organell are duplicated, and cell size may increase. [this] account for 90% of the cell cycle.
the period in the cell cycl when the cell is not dividing. dure [this], cellular metabol  is high, chromosom and organell are duplicated, and cell size may increase. [this] account for 90% of the cell cycle. interphas
kinetochor a structur of protein attach to the centromer that link each sister chromatid to the mitot spindle.
a structur of protein attach to the centromer that link each sister chromatid to the mitot spindle. kinetochor
malign tumor a cancer tumor that is invas enough to impair the function of one or more organs.
a cancer tumor that is invas enough to impair the function of one or more organs. malign tumor
metaphas the third stage of mitosis, in which the spindl is complet and the chromosomes, attach to microtubul at their kinetochores, are all align at the metaphas plate.
the third stage of mitosis, in which the spindl is complet and the chromosomes, attach to microtubul at their kinetochores, are all align at the metaphas plate. metaphas
metaphas plate an imaginari plane midway between the two pole of a cell in metaphas on which the centromer of all the duplic chromosom are located.
an imaginari plane midway between the two pole of a cell in metaphas on which the centromer of all the duplic chromosom are located. metaphas plate
metastasi the spread of cancer cell to locat distant from their origin site.
the spread of cancer cell to locat distant from their origin site. metastasi
mitosi a process of nuclear divis in eukaryot cell convent divid into five stages: prophase, prometaphase, metaphase, anaphase, and telophase. [this] conserv chromosom number by alloc replic chromosom equal to each of the daughter nuclei.
a process of nuclear divis in eukaryot cell convent divid into five stages: prophase, prometaphase, metaphase, anaphase, and telophase. [this] conserv chromosom number by alloc replic chromosom equal to each of the daughter nuclei. mitosi
mitot (m) phase the phase of the cell cycl that includ mitosi and cytokinesis.
the phase of the cell cycl that includ mitosi and cytokinesis. mitot (m) phase
mitot spindl an assemblag of microtubul and associ protein that is involv in the movement of chromosom dure mitosis.
an assemblag of microtubul and associ protein that is involv in the movement of chromosom dure mitosis. mitot spindl
origin of replic site where the replic of a dna molecul begins, consist of a specif sequenc of nucleotides.
site where the replic of a dna molecul begins, consist of a specif sequenc of nucleotides. origin of replic
prometaphas the second stage of mitosis, in which discret chromosom consist of ident sister chromatid appear, the nuclear envelop fragments, and the spindl microtubul attach to the kinetochor of the chromosomes.
the second stage of mitosis, in which discret chromosom consist of ident sister chromatid appear, the nuclear envelop fragments, and the spindl microtubul attach to the kinetochor of the chromosomes. prometaphas
prophas the first stage of mitosis, in which the chromatin condenses, the mitot spindl begin to , and the nucleolus disappears, but the nucleus remain intact.
the first stage of mitosis, in which the chromatin condenses, the mitot spindl begin to , and the nucleolus disappears, but the nucleus remain intact. prophas
s phase the synthesi phase of the cell cycle; the portion of interphas dure which dna is replicated.
the synthesi phase of the cell cycle; the portion of interphas dure which dna is replicated. s phase
sister chromatid either of two copi of a duplic chromosom attach to each other by protein at the centromer and, sometimes, along the arms. while joined, two [these] make up one chromosome; [these] are eventu separ dure mitosi or meiosi ii.
either of two copi of a duplic chromosom attach to each other by protein at the centromer and, sometimes, along the arms. while joined, two [these] make up one chromosome; [these] are eventu separ dure mitosi or meiosi ii. sister chromatid
somat cell ani cell in a multicellular organ except a sperm or egg.
ani cell in a multicellular organ except a sperm or egg. somat cell
telophas the fifth and final stage of mitosis, in which daughter nuclei are  and cytokinesi has typic begun.
the fifth and final stage of mitosis, in which daughter nuclei are  and cytokinesi has typic begun. telophas
trans (1) the convers of a normal anim cell to a cancer cell. (2) a chang in genotyp and phenotyp due to the assimil of extern dna by a cell.
(1) the convers of a normal anim cell to a cancer cell. (2) a chang in genotyp and phenotyp due to the assimil of extern dna by a cell. trans
altern of generat a life cycl in which there is both a multicellular diploid , the sporophyte, and a multicellular haploid , the gametophyte; characterist of plant and some algae.
a life cycl in which there is both a multicellular diploid , the sporophyte, and a multicellular haploid , the gametophyte; characterist of plant and some algae. altern of generat
asexu reproduct the generat of offspr from a singl parent that occur without the fusion of gamet (bi budding, divis of a singl cell, or divis of the entir organ into two or more parts). in most cases, the offspr are genet ident to the parent.
the generat of offspr from a singl parent that occur without the fusion of gamet (bi budding, divis of a singl cell, or divis of the entir organ into two or more parts). in most cases, the offspr are genet ident to the parent. asexu reproduct
autosom a chromosom that is not direct involv in determin sex; not a sex chromosome.
a chromosom that is not direct involv in determin sex; not a sex chromosome. autosom
chiasma the x-shaped, microscop visibl region where homolog nonsist chromatid have exchang genet materi through cross over dure meiosis, the two homolog remain associ due to sister chromatid cohesion.
the x-shaped, microscop visibl region where homolog nonsist chromatid have exchang genet materi through cross over dure meiosis, the two homolog remain associ due to sister chromatid cohesion. chiasma
clone (1) a lineag of genet ident individu or cells. (2) in popular usage, a singl individu organ that is genet ident to anoth individual. (3) as a verb, to make one or more genet replica of an individu or cell. see also gene cloning.
(1) a lineag of genet ident individu or cells. (2) in popular usage, a singl individu organ that is genet ident to anoth individual. (3) as a verb, to make one or more genet replica of an individu or cell. see also gene cloning. clone
diploid cell a cell contain two set of chromosom (2n), one set inherit from each parent.
a cell contain two set of chromosom (2n), one set inherit from each parent. diploid cell
gametophyt in organ (plant and some algae) that have altern of generations, the multicellular haploid  that produc haploid gamet by mitosis. the haploid gamet unit and develop into sporophytes.
in organ (plant and some algae) that have altern of generations, the multicellular haploid  that produc haploid gamet by mitosis. the haploid gamet unit and develop into sporophytes. gametophyt
genet the scientif studi of hered and hereditari variation.
the scientif studi of hered and hereditari variation. genet
haploid cell a cell contain onli one set of chromosom (n).
a cell contain onli one set of chromosom (n). haploid cell
hered the transmiss of trait from one generat to the next.
the transmiss of trait from one generat to the next. hered
homolog chromosom a pair of chromosom of the same length, centromer position, and stain pattern that possess gene for the same charact at correspond loci. one [this] is inherit from the organ father, the other from the mother.
a pair of chromosom of the same length, centromer position, and stain pattern that possess gene for the same charact at correspond loci. one [this] is inherit from the organ father, the other from the mother. homolog chromosom
karyotyp a  of the chromosom pair of a cell arrang by size and shape.
a  of the chromosom pair of a cell arrang by size and shape. karyotyp
life cycl the generation-to-gener sequenc of stage in the reproduct histori of an organism.
the generation-to-gener sequenc of stage in the reproduct histori of an organism. life cycl
locus a specif place along the length of a chromosom where a given gene is located.
a specif place along the length of a chromosom where a given gene is located. locus
meiosi a modifi type of cell divis in sexual reproduc organ consist of two round of cell divis but onli one round of dna replication. it  in cell with half the number of chromosom set as the origin cell.
a modifi type of cell divis in sexual reproduc organ consist of two round of cell divis but onli one round of dna replication. it  in cell with half the number of chromosom set as the origin cell. meiosi
meiosi i the first divis of a two-stag process of cell divis in sexual reproduc organ that  in cell with half the number of chromosom set as the origin cell.
the first divis of a two-stag process of cell divis in sexual reproduc organ that  in cell with half the number of chromosom set as the origin cell. meiosi i
meiosi ii the second divis of a two-stag process of cell divis in sexual reproduc organ that  in cell with half the number of chromosom set as the origin cell.
the second divis of a two-stag process of cell divis in sexual reproduc organ that  in cell with half the number of chromosom set as the origin cell. meiosi ii
recombin chromosom a chromosom creat when cross over combin the dna from two parent into a singl chromosome.
a chromosom creat when cross over combin the dna from two parent into a singl chromosome. recombin chromosom
sex chromosom a chromosom respons for determin the sex of an individual.
a chromosom respons for determin the sex of an individual. sex chromosom
sexual reproduct a type of reproduct in which two parent give rise to offspr that have uniqu combin of gene inherit from the gamet of the parents.
a type of reproduct in which two parent give rise to offspr that have uniqu combin of gene inherit from the gamet of the parents. sexual reproduct
spore (1) in the life cycl of a plant or alga undergo altern of generations, a haploid cell produc in the sporophyt by meiosis. a [this] can divid by mitosi to develop into a multicellular haploid individual, the gametophyte, without fuse with anoth cell. (2) in fungi, a haploid cell, produc either sexual or asexually, that produc a mycelium after germination.
(1) in the life cycl of a plant or alga undergo altern of generations, a haploid cell produc in the sporophyt by meiosis. a [this] can divid by mitosi to develop into a multicellular haploid individual, the gametophyte, without fuse with anoth cell. (2) in fungi, a haploid cell, produc either sexual or asexually, that produc a mycelium after germination. spore
sporophyt in organ (plant and some algae) that have altern of generations, the multicellular diploid  that  from the union of gametes. [this] produc haploid spore by meiosi that develop into gametophytes.
in organ (plant and some algae) that have altern of generations, the multicellular diploid  that  from the union of gametes. [this] produc haploid spore by meiosi that develop into gametophytes. sporophyt
synapsi the pair and physic connect of replic homolog chromosom dure prophas i of meiosis.
the pair and physic connect of replic homolog chromosom dure prophas i of meiosis. synapsi
variat differ between member of the same species.
differ between member of the same species. variat
zygot the diploid product of the union of haploid gamet dure fertilization; a fertil egg.
the diploid product of the union of haploid gamet dure fertilization; a fertil egg. zygot
bacteriophag a virus that infect bacteria; also call a phage.
a virus that infect bacteria; also call a phage. bacteriophag
bacterium member of the prokaryot domain bacteria.
member of the prokaryot domain bacteria. bacterium
dna ligas a link enzym essenti for dna replication; catalyz the coval bond of the 3' end of one dna fragment (such as an okazaki fragment) to the 5' end of anoth dna fragment (such as a grow dna chain).
a link enzym essenti for dna replication; catalyz the coval bond of the 3' end of one dna fragment (such as an okazaki fragment) to the 5' end of anoth dna fragment (such as a grow dna chain). dna ligas
dna polymeras an enzym that catalyz the elong of new dna (for example, at a replic fork) by the addit of nucleotid to the 3' end of an exist chain. there are sever [these]; [this] iii and [this] i play major role in dna replic in prokaryotes.
an enzym that catalyz the elong of new dna (for example, at a replic fork) by the addit of nucleotid to the 3' end of an exist chain. there are sever [these]; [this] iii and [this] i play major role in dna replic in prokaryotes. dna polymeras
euchromatin the less condens  of eukaryot chromatin that is avail for transcription.
the less condens  of eukaryot chromatin that is avail for transcription. euchromatin
helicas an enzym that untwist the doubl helix of dna at the replic forks, separ the two strand and make them avail as templat strands.
an enzym that untwist the doubl helix of dna at the replic forks, separ the two strand and make them avail as templat strands. helicas
heterochromatin eukaryot chromatin that remain high compact dure interphas and is general not transcribed.
eukaryot chromatin that remain high compact dure interphas and is general not transcribed. heterochromatin
histon a small protein with a high proport of posit charg amino acid that  to the negat charg dna and play a key role in chromatin structure.
a small protein with a high proport of posit charg amino acid that  to the negat charg dna and play a key role in chromatin structure. histon
lag strand a discontinu synthes dna strand that elong by mean of okazaki fragments, each synthes in a 5'→3 direct away from the replic fork.
a discontinu synthes dna strand that elong by mean of okazaki fragments, each synthes in a 5'→3 direct away from the replic fork. lag strand
lead strand the new complementari dna strand synthes continu along the templat strand toward the replic fork in the mandatori 5'→3 direction.
the new complementari dna strand synthes continu along the templat strand toward the replic fork in the mandatori 5'→3 direction. lead strand
mismatch repair the cellular process that use specif enzym to remov and replac incorrect pair nucleotides.
the cellular process that use specif enzym to remov and replac incorrect pair nucleotides. mismatch repair
nucleas an enzym that cut dna or rna, either remov one or a few base or hydrolyz the dna or rna complet into it compon nucleotides.
an enzym that cut dna or rna, either remov one or a few base or hydrolyz the dna or rna complet into it compon nucleotides. nucleas
nucleosom the basic, bead-lik unit of dna pack in eukaryotes, consist of a segment of dna wound around a protein core compos of two copi of each of four type of histone.
the basic, bead-lik unit of dna pack in eukaryotes, consist of a segment of dna wound around a protein core compos of two copi of each of four type of histone. nucleosom
nucleotid excis repair a repair system that remov and then correct replac a damag segment of dna use the undamag strand as a guide.
a repair system that remov and then correct replac a damag segment of dna use the undamag strand as a guide. nucleotid excis repair
okazaki fragment a short segment of dna synthes away from the replic fork on a templat strand dure dna replication, mani of which are join togeth to make up the lag strand of newli synthes dna.
a short segment of dna synthes away from the replic fork on a templat strand dure dna replication, mani of which are join togeth to make up the lag strand of newli synthes dna. okazaki fragment
phage a virus that infect bacteria; also call a bacteriophage.
a virus that infect bacteria; also call a bacteriophage. phage
primas an enzym that join rna nucleotid to make the primer use the parent dna strand as a template.
an enzym that join rna nucleotid to make the primer use the parent dna strand as a template. primas
primer a short stretch of rna with a free 3' end, bound by complementari base pair to the templat strand, that is elong with dna nucleotid dure dna replication.
a short stretch of rna with a free 3' end, bound by complementari base pair to the templat strand, that is elong with dna nucleotid dure dna replication. primer
repetit dna nucleotid sequences, usual noncoding, that are present in mani copi in a eukaryot genome. the repeat unit may be short and arrang tandem (in series) or long and dispers in the genome.
nucleotid sequences, usual noncoding, that are present in mani copi in a eukaryot genome. the repeat unit may be short and arrang tandem (in series) or long and dispers in the genome. repetit dna
replic fork a y-shape region on a replic dna molecul where the parent strand are be unwound and new strand are growing.
a y-shape region on a replic dna molecul where the parent strand are be unwound and new strand are growing. replic fork
semiconserv model type of dna replic in which the replic doubl helix consist of one old strand, deriv from the old molecule, and one newli made strand.
type of dna replic in which the replic doubl helix consist of one old strand, deriv from the old molecule, and one newli made strand. semiconserv model
single-strand  protein a protein that  to the unpair dna strand dure dna replication, stabil them and hold them apart while they serv as templat for the synthesi of complementari strand of dna.
a protein that  to the unpair dna strand dure dna replication, stabil them and hold them apart while they serv as templat for the synthesi of complementari strand of dna. single-strand  protein
telomeras an enzym that catalyz the lengthen of telomer in eukaryot germ cells.
an enzym that catalyz the lengthen of telomer in eukaryot germ cells. telomeras
telomer the tandem repetit dna at the end of a eukaryot chromosom dna molecul that protect the organ gene from be erod dure success round of replication. see also repetit dna.
the tandem repetit dna at the end of a eukaryot chromosom dna molecul that protect the organ gene from be erod dure success round of replication. see also repetit dna. telomer
templat strand the dna strand that provid the pattern, or template, for order the sequenc of nucleotid in an rna transcript.
the dna strand that provid the pattern, or template, for order the sequenc of nucleotid in an rna transcript. templat strand
topoisomeras a protein that breaks, swivels, and rejoin dna strands. dure dna replication, [this] help to reliev strain in the doubl helix ahead of the replic fork.
a protein that breaks, swivels, and rejoin dna strands. dure dna replication, [this] help to reliev strain in the doubl helix ahead of the replic fork. topoisomeras
5' cap a modifi  of guanin nucleotid ad onto the nucleotid at the 5' end of a pre-mrna molecule.
a modifi  of guanin nucleotid ad onto the nucleotid at the 5' end of a pre-mrna molecule. 5' cap
a site one of a ribosom three  site for trna dure translation. the [this] hold the trna carri the next amino acid to be ad to the polypeptid chain. ([t] stand for aminoacyl trna.)
one of a ribosom three  site for trna dure translation. the [this] hold the trna carri the next amino acid to be ad to the polypeptid chain. ([t] stand for aminoacyl trna.) a site
altern rna splice a type of eukaryot gene regul at the rna-process level in which differ mrna molecul are produc from the same primari transcript, depend on which rna segment are treat as exon and which as introns.
a type of eukaryot gene regul at the rna-process level in which differ mrna molecul are produc from the same primari transcript, depend on which rna segment are treat as exon and which as introns. altern rna splice
aminoacyl-trna synthetas an enzym that join each amino acid to the appropri trna.
an enzym that join each amino acid to the appropri trna. aminoacyl-trna synthetas
anticodon a nucleotid triplet at one end of a trna molecul that recogn a particular complementari codon on an mrna molecule.
a nucleotid triplet at one end of a trna molecul that recogn a particular complementari codon on an mrna molecule. anticodon
base-pair substitut a type of point mutation; the replac of one nucleotid and it partner in the complementari dna strand by anoth pair of nucleotides.
a type of point mutation; the replac of one nucleotid and it partner in the complementari dna strand by anoth pair of nucleotides. base-pair substitut
codon a three-nucleotid sequenc of dna or mrna that specifi a particular amino acid or termin signal; the basic unit of the genet code.
a three-nucleotid sequenc of dna or mrna that specifi a particular amino acid or termin signal; the basic unit of the genet code. codon
domain (1) a taxonom categori abov the kingdom level. the three [these] are archaea, bacteria, and eukarya. (2) an independ fold part of a protein.
(1) a taxonom categori abov the kingdom level. the three [these] are archaea, bacteria, and eukarya. (2) an independ fold part of a protein. domain
e site one of a ribosom three  site for trna dure translation. the [this] is the place where discharg trnas leav the ribosome. ([t] stand for exit.)
one of a ribosom three  site for trna dure translation. the [this] is the place where discharg trnas leav the ribosome. ([t] stand for exit.) e site
exon a sequenc within a primari transcript that remain in the rna after rna processing; also refer to the region of dna from which this sequenc was transcribed.
a sequenc within a primari transcript that remain in the rna after rna processing; also refer to the region of dna from which this sequenc was transcribed. exon
frameshift mutat a mutat occur when the number of nucleotid insert or delet is not a multipl of three,  in the improp group of the subsequ nucleotid into codons.
a mutat occur when the number of nucleotid insert or delet is not a multipl of three,  in the improp group of the subsequ nucleotid into codons. frameshift mutat
gene express the process by which dna direct the synthesi of protein or, in some cases, just rnas.
the process by which dna direct the synthesi of protein or, in some cases, just rnas. gene express
insert a mutat involv the addit of one or more nucleotid pair to a gene.
a mutat involv the addit of one or more nucleotid pair to a gene. insert
intron a noncoding, interven sequenc within a primari transcript that is remov from the transcript dure rna processing; also refer to the region of dna from which this sequenc was transcribed.
a noncoding, interven sequenc within a primari transcript that is remov from the transcript dure rna processing; also refer to the region of dna from which this sequenc was transcribed. intron
missens mutat a base-pair substitut that  in a codon that code for a differ amino acid.
a base-pair substitut that  in a codon that code for a differ amino acid. missens mutat
mutagen a chemic or physic agent that interact with dna and caus a mutation.
a chemic or physic agent that interact with dna and caus a mutation. mutagen
mutat a chang in the nucleotid sequenc of an organ dna, ultim creat genet diversity. [these] also can occur in the dna or rna of a virus.
a chang in the nucleotid sequenc of an organ dna, ultim creat genet diversity. [these] also can occur in the dna or rna of a virus. mutat
nonsens mutat a mutat that chang an amino acid codon to one of the three stop codons,  in a shorter and usual nonfunct protein.
a mutat that chang an amino acid codon to one of the three stop codons,  in a shorter and usual nonfunct protein. nonsens mutat
p site one of a ribosom three  site for trna dure translation. the [this] hold the trna carri the grow polypeptid chain. ([t] stand for peptidyl trna.)
one of a ribosom three  site for trna dure translation. the [this] hold the trna carri the grow polypeptid chain. ([t] stand for peptidyl trna.) p site
point mutat a chang in a gene at a singl nucleotid pair.
a chang in a gene at a singl nucleotid pair. point mutat
poly-a tail a sequenc of 50 to 250 adenin nucleotid ad onto the 3' end of a pre-mrna molecule.
a sequenc of 50 to 250 adenin nucleotid ad onto the 3' end of a pre-mrna molecule. poly-a tail
polyribosom (polysome) a group of sever ribosom attach to, and translating, the same messeng rna molecule.
a group of sever ribosom attach to, and translating, the same messeng rna molecule. polyribosom (polysome)
primari transcript an initi rna transcript; also call pre-mrna when transcrib from a protein-cod gene.
an initi rna transcript; also call pre-mrna when transcrib from a protein-cod gene. primari transcript
promot a specif nucleotid sequenc in dna that  rna polymerase, posit it to start transcrib rna at the appropri place.
a specif nucleotid sequenc in dna that  rna polymerase, posit it to start transcrib rna at the appropri place. promot
radiat the emiss of electromagnet wave by all object warmer than absolut zero.
the emiss of electromagnet wave by all object warmer than absolut zero. radiat
read frame on an mrna, the triplet group of ribonucleotid use by the translat machineri dure polypeptid synthesis.
on an mrna, the triplet group of ribonucleotid use by the translat machineri dure polypeptid synthesis. read frame
ribozym an rna molecul that function as an enzyme, catalyz reaction dure rna splicing.
an rna molecul that function as an enzyme, catalyz reaction dure rna splicing. ribozym
rna polymeras an enzym that link ribonucleotid into a grow rna chain dure transcription.
an enzym that link ribonucleotid into a grow rna chain dure transcription. rna polymeras
rna process modif of rna transcripts, includ splice out of introns, join togeth of exons, and alter of the 5' and 3' ends.
modif of rna transcripts, includ splice out of introns, join togeth of exons, and alter of the 5' and 3' ends. rna process
rna splice after synthesi of a eukaryot primari rna transcript, the remov of portion (introns) of the transcript that will not be includ in the mrna.
after synthesi of a eukaryot primari rna transcript, the remov of portion (introns) of the transcript that will not be includ in the mrna. rna splice
signal peptid a sequenc of about 20 amino acid at or near the lead (amino) end of a polypeptid that target it to the endoplasm reticulum or other organell in a eukaryot cell.
a sequenc of about 20 amino acid at or near the lead (amino) end of a polypeptid that target it to the endoplasm reticulum or other organell in a eukaryot cell. signal peptid
signal-recognit particl (srp) a protein-rna complex that recogn a signal peptid as it emerg from a ribosom and help direct the ribosom to the endoplasm reticulum (er) by  to a receptor protein on the er.
a protein-rna complex that recogn a signal peptid as it emerg from a ribosom and help direct the ribosom to the endoplasm reticulum (er) by  to a receptor protein on the er. signal-recognit particl (srp)
spliceosom a larg complex made up of protein and rna molecul that splice rna by interact with the end of an rna intron, releas the intron and join the two adjac exons.
a larg complex made up of protein and rna molecul that splice rna by interact with the end of an rna intron, releas the intron and join the two adjac exons. spliceosom
tata box a dna sequenc in eukaryot promot crucial in  the transcript initi complex.
a dna sequenc in eukaryot promot crucial in  the transcript initi complex. tata box
termin in bacteria, a sequenc of nucleotid in dna that mark the end of a gene and signal rna polymeras to releas the newli made rna molecul and detach from the dna.
in bacteria, a sequenc of nucleotid in dna that mark the end of a gene and signal rna polymeras to releas the newli made rna molecul and detach from the dna. termin
transcript the synthesi of rna use a dna template.
the synthesi of rna use a dna template. transcript
transcript initi complex the complet assembl of transcript factor and rna polymeras bound to a promoter.
the complet assembl of transcript factor and rna polymeras bound to a promoter. transcript initi complex
transcript unit a region of dna that is transcrib into an rna molecule.
a region of dna that is transcrib into an rna molecule. transcript unit
transfer rna (trna) an rna molecul that function as an interpret between nucleic acid and protein languag by pick up specif amino acid and recogn the appropri codon in the mrna.
an rna molecul that function as an interpret between nucleic acid and protein languag by pick up specif amino acid and recogn the appropri codon in the mrna. transfer rna (trna)
translat the synthesi of a polypeptid use the genet in encod in an mrna molecule. there is a chang of “language” from nucleotid to amino acids.
the synthesi of a polypeptid use the genet in encod in an mrna molecule. there is a chang of “language” from nucleotid to amino acids. translat
triplet code a set of three-nucleotide-long word that specifi the amino acid for polypeptid chains.
a set of three-nucleotide-long word that specifi the amino acid for polypeptid chains. triplet code
wobbl flexibl in the base-pair rule in which the nucleotid at the 5' end of a trna anticodon can  hydrogen bond with more than one kind of base in the third posit (3 end) of a codon.
flexibl in the base-pair rule in which the nucleotid at the 5' end of a trna anticodon can  hydrogen bond with more than one kind of base in the third posit (3 end) of a codon. wobbl
 a protein that  to dna and stimul gene transcription. in prokaryotes, [these]  in or near the promoter; in eukaryotes, [these]  to control element in enhancers.
a protein that  to dna and stimul gene transcription. in prokaryotes, [these]  in or near the promoter; in eukaryotes, [these]  to control element in enhancers. 
bicoid a matern effect gene that code for a protein respons for specifi the anterior end in drosophila.
a matern effect gene that code for a protein respons for specifi the anterior end in drosophila. bicoid
cell differenti the structur and function diverg of cell as they becom special dure a multicellular organ development. [this] depend on the control of gene expression.
the structur and function diverg of cell as they becom special dure a multicellular organ development. [this] depend on the control of gene expression. cell differenti
control element a segment of noncod dna that help regul transcript of a gene by  a transcript factor. multipl [these] are present in a eukaryot gene enhancer.
a segment of noncod dna that help regul transcript of a gene by  a transcript factor. multipl [these] are present in a eukaryot gene enhancer. control element
corepressor a small molecul that  to a bacteri repressor protein and chang it shape, allow it to switch an operon off.
a small molecul that  to a bacteri repressor protein and chang it shape, allow it to switch an operon off. corepressor
cytoplasm determin a matern substance, such as a protein or rna, place into an egg that influenc the cours of earli develop by regul the express of gene that affect the development fate of cells.
a matern substance, such as a protein or rna, place into an egg that influenc the cours of earli develop by regul the express of gene that affect the development fate of cells. cytoplasm determin
determin the progress restrict of development potenti in which the possibl fate of each cell becom more limit as an embryo develops. at the end of [this], a cell is commit to it fate.
the progress restrict of development potenti in which the possibl fate of each cell becom more limit as an embryo develops. at the end of [this], a cell is commit to it fate. determin
differenti gene express the express of differ set of gene by cell with the same genome.
the express of differ set of gene by cell with the same genome. differenti gene express
egg-polar gene a gene that help control the orient (polarity) of the egg; also call a matern effect gene.
a gene that help control the orient (polarity) of the egg; also call a matern effect gene. egg-polar gene
embryon lethal a mutat with a phenotyp lead to death of an embryo or larva.
a mutat with a phenotyp lead to death of an embryo or larva. embryon lethal
enhanc a segment of eukaryot dna contain multipl control elements, usual locat far from the gene whose transcript it regulates.
a segment of eukaryot dna contain multipl control elements, usual locat far from the gene whose transcript it regulates. enhanc
epigenet inherit inherit of trait transmit by mechan not direct involv the nucleotid sequenc of a genome.
inherit of trait transmit by mechan not direct involv the nucleotid sequenc of a genome. epigenet inherit
histon acetyl the attach of acetyl group to certain amino acid of histon proteins.
the attach of acetyl group to certain amino acid of histon proteins. histon acetyl
homeot gene ani of the master regulatori gene that control placement and spatial organ of bodi part in animals, plants, and fungi by control the development fate of group of cells.
ani of the master regulatori gene that control placement and spatial organ of bodi part in animals, plants, and fungi by control the development fate of group of cells. homeot gene
induc a specif small molecul that  to a bacteri repressor protein and chang the repressor shape so that it cannot  to an operator, thus switch an operon on.
a specif small molecul that  to a bacteri repressor protein and chang the repressor shape so that it cannot  to an operator, thus switch an operon on. induc
induct the process in which one group of embryon cell influenc the develop of another, usual by caus chang in gene expression.
the process in which one group of embryon cell influenc the develop of another, usual by caus chang in gene expression. induct
matern effect gene a gene that, when mutant in the mother,  in a mutant phenotyp in the offspring, regardless of the offspr genotype. [these] were first identifi in drosophila.
a gene that, when mutant in the mother,  in a mutant phenotyp in the offspring, regardless of the offspr genotype. [these] were first identifi in drosophila. matern effect gene
microrna (mirna) a small, single-strand rna molecule, generat from a hairpin structur on a precursor rna transcrib from a particular gene. the [this] associ with one or more protein in a complex that can degrad or prevent translat of an mrna with a complementari sequence.
a small, single-strand rna molecule, generat from a hairpin structur on a precursor rna transcrib from a particular gene. the [this] associ with one or more protein in a complex that can degrad or prevent translat of an mrna with a complementari sequence. microrna (mirna)
morphogen a substance, such as bicoid protein in drosophila, that provid posit in in the  of a concentr gradient along an embryon axis.
a substance, such as bicoid protein in drosophila, that provid posit in in the  of a concentr gradient along an embryon axis. morphogen
morphogenesi the develop of bodi shape and organization.
the develop of bodi shape and organization. morphogenesi
oncogen a gene found in viral or cellular genom that is involv in trigger molecular event that can lead to cancer.
a gene found in viral or cellular genom that is involv in trigger molecular event that can lead to cancer. oncogen
oper in bacteri dna, a sequenc of nucleotid near the start of an operon to which an  repressor can attach. the  of the repressor prevent rna polymeras from attach to the promot and transcrib the gene of the operon.
in bacteri dna, a sequenc of nucleotid near the start of an operon to which an  repressor can attach. the  of the repressor prevent rna polymeras from attach to the promot and transcrib the gene of the operon. oper
operon a unit of genet function found in bacteria and phages, consist of a promoter, an operator, and a coordin regul cluster of gene whose product function in a common pathway.
a unit of genet function found in bacteria and phages, consist of a promoter, an operator, and a coordin regul cluster of gene whose product function in a common pathway. operon
p53 gene a tumor-suppressor gene that code for a specif transcript factor that promot the synthesi of cell cycle–inhibit proteins.
a tumor-suppressor gene that code for a specif transcript factor that promot the synthesi of cell cycle–inhibit proteins. p53 gene
pattern at the develop of a multicellular organ spatial organization, the arrang of organ and tissu in their characterist place in three-dimension space.
the develop of a multicellular organ spatial organization, the arrang of organ and tissu in their characterist place in three-dimension space. pattern at
polyp (1) a small growth, typic benign and with a stalk, protrud from a mucous membrane. (2) the sessil variant of the cnidarian bodi plan. the altern  is the medusa.
(1) a small growth, typic benign and with a stalk, protrud from a mucous membrane. (2) the sessil variant of the cnidarian bodi plan. the altern  is the medusa. polyp
posit in molecular cue that control pattern at in an anim or plant embryon structur by indic a cell locat relat to the organ bodi axes. these cue elicit a respons by gene that regul development.
molecular cue that control pattern at in an anim or plant embryon structur by indic a cell locat relat to the organ bodi axes. these cue elicit a respons by gene that regul development. posit in
proteasom a giant protein complex that recogn and destroy protein tag for elimin by the small protein ubiquitin.
a giant protein complex that recogn and destroy protein tag for elimin by the small protein ubiquitin. proteasom
proto-oncogen a normal cellular gene that has the potenti to becom an oncogene.
a normal cellular gene that has the potenti to becom an oncogene. proto-oncogen
ras gene a gene that code for ras, a g protein that relay a growth signal from a growth factor receptor on the plasma membran to a cascad of protein kinases, ultim  in stimul of the cell cycle.
a gene that code for ras, a g protein that relay a growth signal from a growth factor receptor on the plasma membran to a cascad of protein kinases, ultim  in stimul of the cell cycle. ras gene
regulatori gene a gene that code for a protein, such as a repressor, that control the transcript of anoth gene or group of genes.
a gene that code for a protein, such as a repressor, that control the transcript of anoth gene or group of genes. regulatori gene
repressor a protein that inhibit gene transcription. in prokaryotes, [these]  to the dna in or near the promoter. in eukaryotes, [these] may  to control element within enhancers, to ators, or to other protein in a way that   from  to dna.
a protein that inhibit gene transcription. in prokaryotes, [these]  to the dna in or near the promoter. in eukaryotes, [these] may  to control element within enhancers, to ators, or to other protein in a way that   from  to dna. repressor
rna interfer (rnai) a techniqu use to silenc the express of select genes. [this] use synthet double-strand rna molecul that match the sequenc of a particular gene to trigger the breakdown of the gene messeng rna.
a techniqu use to silenc the express of select genes. [this] use synthet double-strand rna molecul that match the sequenc of a particular gene to trigger the breakdown of the gene messeng rna. rna interfer (rnai)
small interf rna (sirna) a small, single-strand rna molecul generat by cellular machineri from a long, double-strand rna molecule. the [this] associ with one or more protein in a complex that can degrad or prevent translat of an mrna with a complementari sequence. in some cases, [this] can also  transcript by promot chromatin modification.
a small, single-strand rna molecul generat by cellular machineri from a long, double-strand rna molecule. the [this] associ with one or more protein in a complex that can degrad or prevent translat of an mrna with a complementari sequence. in some cases, [this] can also  transcript by promot chromatin modification. small interf rna (sirna)
tumor-suppressor gene a gene whose protein product inhibit cell division, therebi prevent the uncontrol cell growth that contribut to cancer.
a gene whose protein product inhibit cell division, therebi prevent the uncontrol cell growth that contribut to cancer. tumor-suppressor gene
aid (acquir immunodefici syndrome) the symptom and sign present dure the late stage of hiv infection, defin by a specifi reduct in the number of t cell and the appear of characterist secondari infections.
the symptom and sign present dure the late stage of hiv infection, defin by a specifi reduct in the number of t cell and the appear of characterist secondari infections. aid (acquir immunodefici syndrome)
capsid the protein shell that enclos a viral genome. it may be rod-shaped, polyhedral, or more complex in shape.
the protein shell that enclos a viral genome. it may be rod-shaped, polyhedral, or more complex in shape. capsid
hiv (human immunodefici virus) the infecti agent that caus aids. [this] is a retrovirus.
the infecti agent that caus aids. [this] is a retrovirus. hiv (human immunodefici virus)
host rang the limit rang of host cell that each type of virus can infect.
the limit rang of host cell that each type of virus can infect. host rang
lysogen cycl a type of phage reproduct cycl in which the viral genom becom incorpor into the bacteri host chromosom as a prophag and doe not kill the host.
a type of phage reproduct cycl in which the viral genom becom incorpor into the bacteri host chromosom as a prophag and doe not kill the host. lysogen cycl
lytic cycl a type of phage reproduct cycl  in the releas of new phage by lysi (and death) of the host cell.
a type of phage reproduct cycl  in the releas of new phage by lysi (and death) of the host cell. lytic cycl
pandem a global epidemic.
a global epidemic. pandem
prion an infecti agent that is a misfold version of a normal cellular protein. [these] appear to increas in number by convert correct fold version of the protein to more [these].
an infecti agent that is a misfold version of a normal cellular protein. [these] appear to increas in number by convert correct fold version of the protein to more [these]. prion
prophag a phage genom that has been insert into a specif site on a bacteri chromosome.
a phage genom that has been insert into a specif site on a bacteri chromosome. prophag
provirus a viral genom that is perman insert into a host genome.
a viral genom that is perman insert into a host genome. provirus
restrict enzym an endonucleas (type of enzyme) that recogn and cut dna molecul foreign to a bacterium (such as phage genomes). the enzym cut at specif nucleotid sequenc (restrict sites).
an endonucleas (type of enzyme) that recogn and cut dna molecul foreign to a bacterium (such as phage genomes). the enzym cut at specif nucleotid sequenc (restrict sites). restrict enzym
retrovirus an rna virus that reproduc by transcrib it rna into dna and then insert the dna into a cellular chromosome; an import class of cancer-caus viruses.
an rna virus that reproduc by transcrib it rna into dna and then insert the dna into a cellular chromosome; an import class of cancer-caus viruses. retrovirus
revers transcriptas an enzym encod by certain virus (retroviruses) that use rna as a templat for dna synthesis.
an enzym encod by certain virus (retroviruses) that use rna as a templat for dna synthesis. revers transcriptas
temper phage a phage that is capabl of reproduc by either a lytic or lysogen cycle.
a phage that is capabl of reproduc by either a lytic or lysogen cycle. temper phage
vaccin a harmless variant or deriv of a pathogen that stimul a host immun system to mount defens against the pathogen.
a harmless variant or deriv of a pathogen that stimul a host immun system to mount defens against the pathogen. vaccin
viral envelop a membran that cloak the capsid that in turn enclos a viral genome.
a membran that cloak the capsid that in turn enclos a viral genome. viral envelop
viroid a plant pathogen consist of a molecul of naked, circular rna a few hundr nucleotid long.
a plant pathogen consist of a molecul of naked, circular rna a few hundr nucleotid long. viroid
virul phage a phage that reproduc onli by a lytic cycle.
a phage that reproduc onli by a lytic cycle. virul phage
bacteri artifici chromosom (bac) a larg plasmid that act as a bacteri chromosom and can carri insert of 100,000 to 300,000 base pairs.
a larg plasmid that act as a bacteri chromosom and can carri insert of 100,000 to 300,000 base pairs. bacteri artifici chromosom (bac)
biofuel a fuel produc from dri organ matter or combust oil produc by plants.
a fuel produc from dri organ matter or combust oil produc by plants. biofuel
biotechnolog the manipul of organ or their compon to produc use products.
the manipul of organ or their compon to produc use products. biotechnolog
cdna librari a gene librari contain clone that carri complementari dna (cdna) inserts. the librari includ onli the gene that were transcrib in the cell whose mrna was isol to make the cdna.
a gene librari contain clone that carri complementari dna (cdna) inserts. the librari includ onli the gene that were transcrib in the cell whose mrna was isol to make the cdna. cdna librari
clone vector in genet engineering, a dna molecul that can carri foreign dna into a host cell and replic there. [these] includ plasmid that move recombin dna from a test tube back into a cell and virus that transfer recombin dna by infection.
in genet engineering, a dna molecul that can carri foreign dna into a host cell and replic there. [these] includ plasmid that move recombin dna from a test tube back into a cell and virus that transfer recombin dna by infection. clone vector
complementari dna (cdna) a double-strand dna molecul made in vitro use mrna as a templat and the enzym revers transcriptas and dna polymerase. a [this] molecul correspond to the exon of a gene.
a double-strand dna molecul made in vitro use mrna as a templat and the enzym revers transcriptas and dna polymerase. a [this] molecul correspond to the exon of a gene. complementari dna (cdna)
dna microarray assay a method to detect and measur the express of thousand of gene at one time. tini amount of a larg number of single-strand dna fragment repres differ gene are fix to a glass slide and test for hybrid with sampl of label cdna.
a method to detect and measur the express of thousand of gene at one time. tini amount of a larg number of single-strand dna fragment repres differ gene are fix to a glass slide and test for hybrid with sampl of label cdna. dna microarray assay
electropor a techniqu to introduc recombin dna into cell by appli a brief electr puls to a solut contain the cells. the puls creat temporari hole in the cell plasma membranes, through which dna can enter.
a techniqu to introduc recombin dna into cell by appli a brief electr puls to a solut contain the cells. the puls creat temporari hole in the cell plasma membranes, through which dna can enter. electropor
express vector a clone vector that contain the requisit bacteri promot just upstream of a restrict site where a eukaryot gene can be inserted, allow the gene to be express in a bacteri cell.
a clone vector that contain the requisit bacteri promot just upstream of a restrict site where a eukaryot gene can be inserted, allow the gene to be express in a bacteri cell. express vector
gel electrophoresi a techniqu for separ nucleic acid or protein on the basi of their size and electr charge, both of which affect their rate of movement through an electr field in a gel.
a techniqu for separ nucleic acid or protein on the basi of their size and electr charge, both of which affect their rate of movement through an electr field in a gel. gel electrophoresi
gene clone the product of multipl copi of a gene.
the product of multipl copi of a gene. gene clone
gene therapi the introduct of gene into an afflict individu for therapeut purposes.
the introduct of gene into an afflict individu for therapeut purposes. gene therapi
genet engin the direct manipul of gene for practic purposes.
the direct manipul of gene for practic purposes. genet engin
genet profil an individu uniqu set of genet markers, detect most often today by pcr or, previously, by electrophoresi and nucleic acid probes.
an individu uniqu set of genet markers, detect most often today by pcr or, previously, by electrophoresi and nucleic acid probes. genet profil
genet modifi (gm) organ an organ that has acquir one or more gene by artifici means; also known as a transgen organism.
an organ that has acquir one or more gene by artifici means; also known as a transgen organism. genet modifi (gm) organ
genom librari a set of cell clone contain all the dna segment from a genome, each within a plasmid, phage, or other clone vector.
a set of cell clone contain all the dna segment from a genome, each within a plasmid, phage, or other clone vector. genom librari
in situ hybrid a techniqu use to detect the locat of a specif mrna use nucleic acid hybrid with a label probe in an intact organism.
a techniqu use to detect the locat of a specif mrna use nucleic acid hybrid with a label probe in an intact organism. in situ hybrid
in vitro mutagenesi a techniqu use to discov the function of a gene by clone it, introduc specif chang into the clone gene sequence, reinsert the mutat gene into a cell, and studi the phenotyp of the mutant.
a techniqu use to discov the function of a gene by clone it, introduc specif chang into the clone gene sequence, reinsert the mutat gene into a cell, and studi the phenotyp of the mutant. in vitro mutagenesi
northern blot a techniqu that enabl specif nucleotid sequenc to be detect in a sampl of mrna. it involv gel electrophoresi of rna molecul and their transfer to a membran (blotting), follow by nucleic acid hybrid with a label probe.
a techniqu that enabl specif nucleotid sequenc to be detect in a sampl of mrna. it involv gel electrophoresi of rna molecul and their transfer to a membran (blotting), follow by nucleic acid hybrid with a label probe. northern blot
nucleic acid hybrid the process of base pair between a gene and a complementari sequenc on anoth nucleic acid molecule.
the process of base pair between a gene and a complementari sequenc on anoth nucleic acid molecule. nucleic acid hybrid
nucleic acid probe in dna technology, a label single-strand nucleic acid molecul use to locat a specif nucleotid sequenc in a nucleic acid sample. molecul of the [this] hydrogen-bond to the complementari sequenc wherev it occurs; radioact or other label of the [this] allow it locat to be detected.
in dna technology, a label single-strand nucleic acid molecul use to locat a specif nucleotid sequenc in a nucleic acid sample. molecul of the [this] hydrogen-bond to the complementari sequenc wherev it occurs; radioact or other label of the [this] allow it locat to be detected. nucleic acid probe
parkinson diseas a progress brain diseas character by difficulti in initi movements, slow of movement, and rigidity.
a progress brain diseas character by difficulti in initi movements, slow of movement, and rigidity. parkinson diseas
plasmid a small, circular, double-strand dna molecul that carri accessori gene separ from those of a bacteri chromosome. [these] are also found in some eukaryotes, such as yeasts.
a small, circular, double-strand dna molecul that carri accessori gene separ from those of a bacteri chromosome. [these] are also found in some eukaryotes, such as yeasts. plasmid
pluripot describ a cell that can give rise to many, but not all, part of an organism.
describ a cell that can give rise to many, but not all, part of an organism. pluripot
polymeras chain reaction (pcr) a techniqu for amplifi dna in vitro by incub it with specif primers, a heat-resist dna polymerase, and nucleotides.
a techniqu for amplifi dna in vitro by incub it with specif primers, a heat-resist dna polymerase, and nucleotides. polymeras chain reaction (pcr)
recombin dna a dna molecul made in vitro with segment from differ sources.
a dna molecul made in vitro with segment from differ sources. recombin dna
restrict fragment a dna segment that  from the cut of dna by a restrict enzyme.
a dna segment that  from the cut of dna by a restrict enzyme. restrict fragment
restrict fragment length polymorph (rflp) a singl nucleotid polymorph (snp) that exist in the restrict site for a particular enzyme, thus make the site unrecogniz by that enzym and chang the length of the restrict fragment  by digest with that enzyme. a [this] can be in code or noncod dna.
a singl nucleotid polymorph (snp) that exist in the restrict site for a particular enzyme, thus make the site unrecogniz by that enzym and chang the length of the restrict fragment  by digest with that enzyme. a [this] can be in code or noncod dna. restrict fragment length polymorph (rflp)
restrict site a specif sequenc on a dna strand that is recogn and cut by a restrict enzyme.
a specif sequenc on a dna strand that is recogn and cut by a restrict enzyme. restrict site
revers transcriptase–polymeras chain reaction (rt-pcr) a techniqu for determin express of a particular gene. it use revers transcriptas and dna polymeras to synthes cdna from all the mrna in a sampl and then subject the cdna to pcr amplif use primer specif for the gene of interest.
a techniqu for determin express of a particular gene. it use revers transcriptas and dna polymeras to synthes cdna from all the mrna in a sampl and then subject the cdna to pcr amplif use primer specif for the gene of interest. revers transcriptase–polymeras chain reaction (rt-pcr)
short tandem repeat (str) simpl sequenc dna contain multipl tandem repeat unit of two to five nucleotides. variat in [these] act as genet marker in [this] analysis, use to prepar genet profiles.
simpl sequenc dna contain multipl tandem repeat unit of two to five nucleotides. variat in [these] act as genet marker in [this] analysis, use to prepar genet profiles. short tandem repeat (str)
singl nucleotid polymorph (snp) a singl base-pair site in a genom where nucleotid variat is found in at least 1% of the population.
a singl base-pair site in a genom where nucleotid variat is found in at least 1% of the population. singl nucleotid polymorph (snp)
southern blot a techniqu that enabl specif nucleotid sequenc to be detect in a sampl of dna. it involv gel electrophoresi of dna molecul and their transfer to a membran (blotting), follow by nucleic acid hybrid with a label probe.
a techniqu that enabl specif nucleotid sequenc to be detect in a sampl of dna. it involv gel electrophoresi of dna molecul and their transfer to a membran (blotting), follow by nucleic acid hybrid with a label probe. southern blot
stem cell ani relat unspeci cell that can produce, dure a singl division, one ident daughter cell and one more special daughter cell that can undergo further differentiation.
ani relat unspeci cell that can produce, dure a singl division, one ident daughter cell and one more special daughter cell that can undergo further differentiation. stem cell
sticki end a single-strand end of a double-strand restrict fragment.
a single-strand end of a double-strand restrict fragment. sticki end
ti plasmid a plasmid of a tumor-induc bacterium (the plant pathogen agrobacterium) that integr a segment of it dna (t dna) into a chromosom of a host plant. the [this] is frequent use as a vector for genet engin in plants.
a plasmid of a tumor-induc bacterium (the plant pathogen agrobacterium) that integr a segment of it dna (t dna) into a chromosom of a host plant. the [this] is frequent use as a vector for genet engin in plants. ti plasmid
yeast artifici chromosom (yac) a clone vector that combin the essenti of a eukaryot chromosome—an origin for dna replication, a centromere, and two telomeres—with foreign dna.
a clone vector that combin the essenti of a eukaryot chromosome—an origin for dna replication, a centromere, and two telomeres—with foreign dna. yeast artifici chromosom (yac)
evo-devo evolutionari development biology; a field of biolog that compar development process of differ multicellular organ to understand how these process have evolv and how chang can modifi exist organism featur or lead to new ones.
evolutionari development biology; a field of biolog that compar development process of differ multicellular organ to understand how these process have evolv and how chang can modifi exist organism featur or lead to new ones. evo-devo
genom the studi of whole set of gene and their interactions.
the studi of whole set of gene and their interactions. genom
homeobox a 180-nucleotid sequenc within homeot gene and some other development gene that is wide conserv in animals. relat sequenc occur in plant and yeasts.
a 180-nucleotid sequenc within homeot gene and some other development gene that is wide conserv in animals. relat sequenc occur in plant and yeasts. homeobox
human genom project an intern collabor effort to map and sequenc the dna of the entir human genome.
an intern collabor effort to map and sequenc the dna of the entir human genome. human genom project
lysozym an enzym that destroy bacteri cell walls; in mammals, found in sweat, tears, and saliva.
an enzym that destroy bacteri cell walls; in mammals, found in sweat, tears, and saliva. lysozym
multigen famili a collect of gene with similar or ident sequences, presum of common origin.
a collect of gene with similar or ident sequences, presum of common origin. multigen famili
phylogenet tree a branch diagram that repres a hypothesi about the evolutionari histori of a group of organisms.
a branch diagram that repres a hypothesi about the evolutionari histori of a group of organisms. phylogenet tree
physic map a genet map in which the actual physic distanc between gene or other genet marker are expressed, usual as the number of base pair along the dna.
a genet map in which the actual physic distanc between gene or other genet marker are expressed, usual as the number of base pair along the dna. physic map
proteom the systemat studi of the full protein set (proteomes) encod by genomes.
the systemat studi of the full protein set (proteomes) encod by genomes. proteom
pseudogen a dna segment veri similar to a real gene but which doe not yield a function product; a dna segment that er function as a gene but has becom in in a particular speci becaus of mutation.
a dna segment veri similar to a real gene but which doe not yield a function product; a dna segment that er function as a gene but has becom in in a particular speci becaus of mutation. pseudogen
retrotransposon a transpos element that move within a genom by mean of an rna intermediate, a transcript of the [this] dna.
a transpos element that move within a genom by mean of an rna intermediate, a transcript of the [this] dna. retrotransposon
simpl sequenc dna a dna sequenc that contain mani copi of tandem repeat short sequences.
a dna sequenc that contain mani copi of tandem repeat short sequences. simpl sequenc dna
transpos element a segment of dna that can move within the genom of a cell by mean of a dna or rna intermediate; also call a transpos genet element.
a segment of dna that can move within the genom of a cell by mean of a dna or rna intermediate; also call a transpos genet element. transpos element
transposon a transpos element that move within a genom by mean of a dna intermediate.
a transpos element that move within a genom by mean of a dna intermediate. transposon
adapt inherit characterist of an organ that enhanc it surviv and reproduct in specif environments.
inherit characterist of an organ that enhanc it surviv and reproduct in specif environments. adapt
analog have characterist that are similar becaus of converg evolution, not homology.
have characterist that are similar becaus of converg evolution, not homology. analog
artifici select the select breed of domest plant and anim to encourag the occurr of desir traits.
the select breed of domest plant and anim to encourag the occurr of desir traits. artifici select
biogeographi the studi of the past and present distribut of species.
the studi of the past and present distribut of species. biogeographi
catastroph the principl that event in the past occur sudden and were caus by differ mechan than those oper today. see uniitarianism.
the principl that event in the past occur sudden and were caus by differ mechan than those oper today. see uniitarianism. catastroph
continent drift the slow movement of the continent plate across earth surface.
the slow movement of the continent plate across earth surface. continent drift
converg evolut the evolut of similar featur in independ evolutionari lineages.
the evolut of similar featur in independ evolutionari lineages. converg evolut
endem refer to a speci that is confin to a specific, relat small geograph area.
refer to a speci that is confin to a specific, relat small geograph area. endem
evolutionari tree a branch diagram that reflect a hypothesi about evolutionari relationship among group of organisms.
a branch diagram that reflect a hypothesi about evolutionari relationship among group of organisms. evolutionari tree
fossil a preserv remnant or impress of an organ that live in the past.
a preserv remnant or impress of an organ that live in the past. fossil
homolog structur structur in differ speci that are similar becaus of common ancestry.
structur in differ speci that are similar becaus of common ancestry. homolog structur
homolog similar in characterist  from a share ancestry.
similar in characterist  from a share ancestry. homolog
marsupi a mammal, such as a koala, kangaroo, or opossum, whose young complet their embryon develop insid a matern pouch call the marsupium.
a mammal, such as a koala, kangaroo, or opossum, whose young complet their embryon develop insid a matern pouch call the marsupium. marsupi
natur select a process in which organ with certain inherit characterist are more like to surviv and reproduc than are organ with other characteristics.
a process in which organ with certain inherit characterist are more like to surviv and reproduc than are organ with other characteristics. natur select
paleontolog the scientif studi of fossils.
the scientif studi of fossils. paleontolog
pangaea the supercontin that  near the end of the paleozo era, when plate movement brought all the landmass of earth together.
the supercontin that  near the end of the paleozo era, when plate movement brought all the landmass of earth together. pangaea
stratum a rock layer  when new layer of sediment cover older one and compress them.
a rock layer  when new layer of sediment cover older one and compress them. stratum
uniitarian the principl state that mechan of chang are constant over time. see catastrophism.
the principl state that mechan of chang are constant over time. see catastrophism. uniitarian
vestigi structur a structur of marginal, if any, import to an organism. [these] are histor remnant of structur that had import function in ancestors.
a structur of marginal, if any, import to an organism. [these] are histor remnant of structur that had import function in ancestors. vestigi structur
allopatr speciat the at of new speci in popul that are geograph isol from one another.
the at of new speci in popul that are geograph isol from one another. allopatr speciat
allopolyploid a fertil individu that has more than two chromosom set as a  of two differ speci interbreed and combin their chromosomes.
a fertil individu that has more than two chromosom set as a  of two differ speci interbreed and combin their chromosomes. allopolyploid
autopolyploid an individu that has more than two chromosom set that are all deriv from a singl species.
an individu that has more than two chromosom set that are all deriv from a singl species. autopolyploid
biolog speci concept definit of a speci as a popul or group of popul whose member have the potenti to interbre in natur and produc viable, fertil offspring, but do not produc viable, fertil offspr with member of other such groups.
definit of a speci as a popul or group of popul whose member have the potenti to interbre in natur and produc viable, fertil offspring, but do not produc viable, fertil offspr with member of other such groups. biolog speci concept
ecolog speci concept a definit of speci in term of ecolog niche, the sum of how member of the speci interact with the nonliv and live part of their environment.
a definit of speci in term of ecolog niche, the sum of how member of the speci interact with the nonliv and live part of their environment. ecolog speci concept
hybrid offspr that  from the mate of individu from two differ speci or two true-breed varieti of the same species.
offspr that  from the mate of individu from two differ speci or two true-breed varieti of the same species. hybrid
hybrid zone a geograph region in which member of differ speci meet and mate, produc at least some offspr of mix ancestry.
a geograph region in which member of differ speci meet and mate, produc at least some offspr of mix ancestry. hybrid zone
macroevolut evolutionari chang abov the speci level, includ the origin of a new group of organ or a shift in the broad pattern of evolutionari chang over a long period of time. exampl of macroevolutionari chang includ the appear of major new featur of organ and the impact of mass extinct on the divers of life and it subsequ recovery.
evolutionari chang abov the speci level, includ the origin of a new group of organ or a shift in the broad pattern of evolutionari chang over a long period of time. exampl of macroevolutionari chang includ the appear of major new featur of organ and the impact of mass extinct on the divers of life and it subsequ recovery. macroevolut
morpholog speci concept a definit of speci in term of measur anatom criteria.
a definit of speci in term of measur anatom criteria. morpholog speci concept
phylogenet speci concept a definit of speci as the smallest group of individu that share a common ancestor,  one branch on the tree of life.
a definit of speci as the smallest group of individu that share a common ancestor,  one branch on the tree of life. phylogenet speci concept
postzygot barrier a reproduct barrier that prevent hybrid zygot produc by two differ speci from develop into viable, fertil adults.
a reproduct barrier that prevent hybrid zygot produc by two differ speci from develop into viable, fertil adults. postzygot barrier
prezygot barrier a reproduct barrier that imped mate between speci or hinder fertil if interspecif mate is attempted.
a reproduct barrier that imped mate between speci or hinder fertil if interspecif mate is attempted. prezygot barrier
punctuat equilibria in the fossil record, long period of appar stasis, in which a speci undergo littl or no morpholog change, interrupt by relat brief period of sudden change.
in the fossil record, long period of appar stasis, in which a speci undergo littl or no morpholog change, interrupt by relat brief period of sudden change. punctuat equilibria
reinforc a process in which natur select strengthen prezygot barrier to reproduction, thus reduc the chanc of hybrid ation. such a process is like to occur onli if hybrid offspr are less fit than member of the parent species.
a process in which natur select strengthen prezygot barrier to reproduction, thus reduc the chanc of hybrid ation. such a process is like to occur onli if hybrid offspr are less fit than member of the parent species. reinforc
speciat an evolutionari process in which one speci split into two or more species.
an evolutionari process in which one speci split into two or more species. speciat
speci a popul or group of popul whose member have the potenti to interbre in natur and produc viable, fertil offspring, but do not produc viable, fertil offspr with member of other such groups.
a popul or group of popul whose member have the potenti to interbre in natur and produc viable, fertil offspring, but do not produc viable, fertil offspr with member of other such groups. speci
sympatr speciat the at of new speci in popul that live in the same geograph area.
the at of new speci in popul that live in the same geograph area. sympatr speciat
reproduct isol the exist of biolog factor (barriers) that imped member of two speci from produc viable, fertil offspring.
the exist of biolog factor (barriers) that imped member of two speci from produc viable, fertil offspring. reproduct isol
averag heterozygos the percent, on average, of a popul loci that are heterozyg in member of the population.
the percent, on average, of a popul loci that are heterozyg in member of the population. averag heterozygos
balanc select natur select that maintain two or more phenotyp  in a population.
natur select that maintain two or more phenotyp  in a population. balanc select
bottleneck effect genet drift that occur when the size of a popul is reduced, as by a natur disast or human actions. typically, the surviv popul is no longer genet repres of the origin population.
genet drift that occur when the size of a popul is reduced, as by a natur disast or human actions. typically, the surviv popul is no longer genet repres of the origin population. bottleneck effect
cline a grade chang in a charact along a geograph axis.
a grade chang in a charact along a geograph axis. cline
direct select natur select in which individu at one end of the phenotyp rang surviv or reproduc more success than do other individuals.
natur select in which individu at one end of the phenotyp rang surviv or reproduc more success than do other individuals. direct select
disrupt select natur select in which individu on both extrem of a phenotyp rang surviv or reproduc more success than do individu with intermedi phenotypes.
natur select in which individu on both extrem of a phenotyp rang surviv or reproduc more success than do individu with intermedi phenotypes. disrupt select
founder effect genet drift that occur when a few individu becom isol from a larger popul and  a new popul whose gene pool composit is not reflect of that of the origin population.
genet drift that occur when a few individu becom isol from a larger popul and  a new popul whose gene pool composit is not reflect of that of the origin population. founder effect
frequency-depend select a declin in the reproduct success of individu that have a phenotyp that has becom too common in a population.
a declin in the reproduct success of individu that have a phenotyp that has becom too common in a population. frequency-depend select
gene flow the transfer of allel from one popul to another,  from the movement of fertil individu or their gametes.
the transfer of allel from one popul to another,  from the movement of fertil individu or their gametes. gene flow
gene pool the aggreg of all of the allel for all of the loci in all individu in a population. the term is also use in a more restrict sens as the aggreg of allel for just one or a few loci in a population.
the aggreg of all of the allel for all of the loci in all individu in a population. the term is also use in a more restrict sens as the aggreg of allel for just one or a few loci in a population. gene pool
genet drift a process in which chanc event caus unpredict fluctuat in allel frequenc from one generat to the next. effect of [this] are most pronounc in small populations.
a process in which chanc event caus unpredict fluctuat in allel frequenc from one generat to the next. effect of [this] are most pronounc in small populations. genet drift
geograph variat differ between the gene pool of geograph separ popul or popul subgroups.
differ between the gene pool of geograph separ popul or popul subgroups. geograph variat
hardy-weinberg equilibrium the condit describ a nonevolv popul (one that is in genet equilibrium).
the condit describ a nonevolv popul (one that is in genet equilibrium). hardy-weinberg equilibrium
hardy-weinberg principl the principl that frequenc of allel and genotyp in a popul remain constant from generat to generation, provid that onli mendelian segreg and recombin of allel are at work.
the principl that frequenc of allel and genotyp in a popul remain constant from generat to generation, provid that onli mendelian segreg and recombin of allel are at work. hardy-weinberg principl
heterozygot advantag greater reproduct success of heterozyg individu compar with homozygotes; tend to preserv variat in a gene pool.
greater reproduct success of heterozyg individu compar with homozygotes; tend to preserv variat in a gene pool. heterozygot advantag
intersexu select select wherebi individu of one sex (usual females) are choosi in select their mate from individu of the other sex; also call mate choice.
select wherebi individu of one sex (usual females) are choosi in select their mate from individu of the other sex; also call mate choice. intersexu select
intrasexu select a direct competit among individu of one sex (usual the male in vertebrates) for mate of the opposit sex.
a direct competit among individu of one sex (usual the male in vertebrates) for mate of the opposit sex. intrasexu select
microevolut evolutionari chang below the speci level; chang in the allel frequenc in a popul over generations.
evolutionari chang below the speci level; chang in the allel frequenc in a popul over generations. microevolut
neutral variat genet variat that doe not appear to provid a select advantag or disadvantage.
genet variat that doe not appear to provid a select advantag or disadvantage. neutral variat
popul a local group of individu of the same speci that can interbreed, produc fertil offspring.
a local group of individu of the same speci that can interbreed, produc fertil offspring. popul
relat fit the contribut an individu make to the gene pool of the next generation, relat to the contribut of other individu in the population.
the contribut an individu make to the gene pool of the next generation, relat to the contribut of other individu in the population. relat fit
sexual dimorph mark differ between the secondari sex characterist of male and females.
mark differ between the secondari sex characterist of male and females. sexual dimorph
sexual select a  of natur select in which individu with certain inherit characterist are more like than other individu to obtain mates.
a  of natur select in which individu with certain inherit characterist are more like than other individu to obtain mates. sexual select
stabil select natur select in which intermedi phenotyp surviv or reproduc more success than do extrem phenotypes.
natur select in which intermedi phenotyp surviv or reproduc more success than do extrem phenotypes. stabil select
1 skull
2 hyoid bone
3 cervic region
4 scapula
5 clavicl
6 sternum
7 thorac region
8 humerus
9 radius
10 ulna
11 carpal bone
12 metacarp bone
13 proxim phalang
14 middl phalang
15 distal phalang
16 lumbar region
17 sacrum
18 coccyg region
19 ilium
20 ischium
21 pubi
22 femur
23 patella
24 tibia
25 fibula
26 talus
27 calcaneus
28 metatars bone
13 proxim phalang
14 middl phalang
15 distal phalang
1 temporali
2 orbiculari oculi
3 levat labii superiori
4 orbiculari ori
14 frontal belli
15 buccin
16 sternocleomastoid
5 pectorali major
6 deltoid
7 bicep brachii
8 rectus abdominus
17 extern obliqu
9 intern obliqu
10 adductor longus
11 gracili
18 tensor fascia lata
12 sartorius
19 rectus femori
20 vastus laterali
21 vastus medius
13 tibiali anterior
22 fibulari longus
6 trapezius
7 deltoid
8 tricep
9 latissimus dorsi
10 extern obliqu
11 gluteus medius
1 gluteus maximus
2 adductor magnus
3 bicep femori
4 semimembranosus
5 gastrocnemius
acetylcholin one of the most common neurotransmitters; function by  to receptor and alter the permeabl of the postsynapt membran to specif ions, either depolar or hyperpolar the membrane.
one of the most common neurotransmitters; function by  to receptor and alter the permeabl of the postsynapt membran to specif ions, either depolar or hyperpolar the membrane. acetylcholin
axon a typic long extension, or process, of a neuron that carri nerv impuls away from the cell bodi toward target cells.
a typic long extension, or process, of a neuron that carri nerv impuls away from the cell bodi toward target cells. axon
axon hillock the conic region of a neuron axon where it join the cell body; typic the region where nerv impuls are generated.
the conic region of a neuron axon where it join the cell body; typic the region where nerv impuls are generated. axon hillock
biogen amin a neurotransmitt deriv from an amino acid.
a neurotransmitt deriv from an amino acid. biogen amin
brain organ of the central nervous system where in is process and integrated.
organ of the central nervous system where in is process and integrated. brain
cell bodi the part of a neuron that hous the nucleus and most other organelles.
the part of a neuron that hous the nucleus and most other organelles. cell bodi
depolar a chang in a cell membran potenti such that the insid of the membran is made less negat relat to the outside. for example, a neuron membran is depolar if a stimulus decreas it voltag from the rest potenti of –70 mv in the direct of zero voltage.
a chang in a cell membran potenti such that the insid of the membran is made less negat relat to the outside. for example, a neuron membran is depolar if a stimulus decreas it voltag from the rest potenti of –70 mv in the direct of zero voltage. depolar
dopamin a neurotransmitt that is a catecholamine, like epinephrin and norepinephrine.
a neurotransmitt that is a catecholamine, like epinephrin and norepinephrine. dopamin
equilibrium potenti (eion) the magnitud of a cell membran voltag at equilibrium; calcul use the nernst equation.
the magnitud of a cell membran voltag at equilibrium; calcul use the nernst equation. equilibrium potenti (eion)
excitatori postsynapt potenti (epsp) an electr chang (depolarization) in the membran of a postsynapt cell caus by the  of an excitatori neurotransmitt from a presynapt cell to a postsynapt receptor; make it more like for a postsynapt cell to generat an action potential.
an electr chang (depolarization) in the membran of a postsynapt cell caus by the  of an excitatori neurotransmitt from a presynapt cell to a postsynapt receptor; make it more like for a postsynapt cell to generat an action potential. excitatori postsynapt potenti (epsp)
gamma-aminobutyr acid (gaba) an amino acid that function as a cns neurotransmitt in the central nervous system of vertebrates.
an amino acid that function as a cns neurotransmitt in the central nervous system of vertebrates. gamma-aminobutyr acid (gaba)
ganglion a cluster (function group) of nerv cell bodi in a central nervous system.
a cluster (function group) of nerv cell bodi in a central nervous system. ganglion
gate ion channel a gate channel for a specif ion. the open or close of such channel may alter a cell membran potential.
a gate channel for a specif ion. the open or close of such channel may alter a cell membran potential. gate ion channel
glial cell (glia) support cell that are essenti for the structur integr of the nervous system and for the normal function of neurons.
support cell that are essenti for the structur integr of the nervous system and for the normal function of neurons. glial cell (glia)
glutam an amino acid that function as a neurotransmitt in the central nervous system.
an amino acid that function as a neurotransmitt in the central nervous system. glutam
hyperpolar a chang in a cell membran potenti such that the insid of the membran becom more negat relat to the outside. [this] reduc the chanc that a neuron will transmit a nerv impulse.
a chang in a cell membran potenti such that the insid of the membran becom more negat relat to the outside. [this] reduc the chanc that a neuron will transmit a nerv impulse. hyperpolar
inhibitori postsynapt potenti (ipsp) an electr chang (usual hyperpolarization) in the membran of a postsynapt neuron caus by the  of an inhibitori neurotransmitt from a presynapt cell to a postsynapt receptor; make it more difficult for a postsynapt neuron to generat an action potential.
an electr chang (usual hyperpolarization) in the membran of a postsynapt neuron caus by the  of an inhibitori neurotransmitt from a presynapt cell to a postsynapt receptor; make it more difficult for a postsynapt neuron to generat an action potential. inhibitori postsynapt potenti (ipsp)
interneuron an associ neuron; a nerv cell within the central nervous system that  synaps with sensori and/or motor neuron and integr sensori input and motor output.
an associ neuron; a nerv cell within the central nervous system that  synaps with sensori and/or motor neuron and integr sensori input and motor output. interneuron
motor neuron a nerv cell that transmit signal from the brain or spinal cord to muscl or glands.
a nerv cell that transmit signal from the brain or spinal cord to muscl or glands. motor neuron
myelin sheath around the axon of a neuron, an insul coat of cell membran from schwann cell or oligodendrocytes. it is interrupt by node of ranvier, where action potenti are generated.
around the axon of a neuron, an insul coat of cell membran from schwann cell or oligodendrocytes. it is interrupt by node of ranvier, where action potenti are generated. myelin sheath
neuron a nerv cell; the fundament unit of the nervous system, have structur and properti that allow it to conduct signal by take advantag of the electr charg across it plasma membrane.
a nerv cell; the fundament unit of the nervous system, have structur and properti that allow it to conduct signal by take advantag of the electr charg across it plasma membrane. neuron
neuropeptid a relat short chain of amino acid that serv as a neurotransmitter.
a relat short chain of amino acid that serv as a neurotransmitter. neuropeptid
neurotransmitt a molecul that is releas from the synapt termin of a neuron at a chemic synapse, diffus across the synapt cleft, and  to the postsynapt cell, trigger a response.
a molecul that is releas from the synapt termin of a neuron at a chemic synapse, diffus across the synapt cleft, and  to the postsynapt cell, trigger a response. neurotransmitt
node of ranvier gap in the myelin sheath of certain axon where an action potenti may be generated. in saltatori conduction, an action potenti is regener at each node, appear to “jump” along the axon from node to node.
gap in the myelin sheath of certain axon where an action potenti may be generated. in saltatori conduction, an action potenti is regener at each node, appear to “jump” along the axon from node to node. node of ranvier
norepinephrin a catecholamin that is chemic and function similar to epinephrin and act as a hormon or neurotransmitter; also known as noradrenaline.
a catecholamin that is chemic and function similar to epinephrin and act as a hormon or neurotransmitter; also known as noradrenaline. norepinephrin
oligodendrocyt a type of glial cell that  insul myelin sheath around the axon of neuron in the central nervous system.
a type of glial cell that  insul myelin sheath around the axon of neuron in the central nervous system. oligodendrocyt
peni the copulatori structur of male mammals.
the copulatori structur of male mammals. peni
peripher nervous system (pns) the sensori and motor neuron that connect to the central nervous system.
the sensori and motor neuron that connect to the central nervous system. peripher nervous system (pns)
postsynapt cell the target cell at a synapse.
the target cell at a synapse. postsynapt cell
presynapt cell the transmit cell at a synapse.
the transmit cell at a synapse. presynapt cell
refractori period the short time immedi after an action potenti in which the neuron cannot respond to anoth stimulus, owe to the in of voltage-g sodium channels.
the short time immedi after an action potenti in which the neuron cannot respond to anoth stimulus, owe to the in of voltage-g sodium channels. refractori period
rest potenti the membran potenti characterist of a nonconduct excit cell, with the insid of the cell more negat than the outside.
the membran potenti characterist of a nonconduct excit cell, with the insid of the cell more negat than the outside. rest potenti
saltatori conduct rapid transmiss of a nerv impuls along an axon,  from the action potenti jump from one node of ranvier to another, skip the myelin-sheath region of membrane.
rapid transmiss of a nerv impuls along an axon,  from the action potenti jump from one node of ranvier to another, skip the myelin-sheath region of membrane. saltatori conduct
schwann cell a type of glial cell that  insul myelin sheath around the axon of neuron in the peripher nervous system.
a type of glial cell that  insul myelin sheath around the axon of neuron in the peripher nervous system. schwann cell
sensori neuron a nerv cell that receiv in from the intern or extern environ and transmit signal to the central nervous system.
a nerv cell that receiv in from the intern or extern environ and transmit signal to the central nervous system. sensori neuron
serotonin a neurotransmitter, synthes from the amino acid tryptophan, that function in the central nervous system.
a neurotransmitter, synthes from the amino acid tryptophan, that function in the central nervous system. serotonin
spatial summat a phenomenon of neural integr in which the membran potenti of the postsynapt cell is determin by the combin effect of epsp or ipsp produc near simultan by differ synapses.
a phenomenon of neural integr in which the membran potenti of the postsynapt cell is determin by the combin effect of epsp or ipsp produc near simultan by differ synapses. spatial summat
substanc p a neuropeptid that is a key excitatori neurotransmitt that mediat the percept of pain.
a neuropeptid that is a key excitatori neurotransmitt that mediat the percept of pain. substanc p
synaps the junction where one neuron communic with anoth cell across a narrow gap. neurotransmitt molecul releas by the neuron diffus across the [this], relay messag to the other cell.
the junction where one neuron communic with anoth cell across a narrow gap. neurotransmitt molecul releas by the neuron diffus across the [this], relay messag to the other cell. synaps
synapt cleft a narrow gap separ the synapt termin of a transmit neuron from a receiv neuron or an effector cell.
a narrow gap separ the synapt termin of a transmit neuron from a receiv neuron or an effector cell. synapt cleft
synapt termin a bulb at the end of an axon in which neurotransmitt molecul are store and from which they are released.
a bulb at the end of an axon in which neurotransmitt molecul are store and from which they are released. synapt termin
synapt vesicl membran sac contain neurotransmitt molecul at the tip of an axon.
membran sac contain neurotransmitt molecul at the tip of an axon. synapt vesicl
tempor summat a phenomenon of neural integr in which the membran potenti of the postsynapt cell in a chemic synaps is determin by the combin effect of epsp or ipsp produc in rapid succession.
a phenomenon of neural integr in which the membran potenti of the postsynapt cell in a chemic synaps is determin by the combin effect of epsp or ipsp produc in rapid succession. tempor summat
threshold the potenti that an excit cell membran must reach for an action potenti to be initiated.
the potenti that an excit cell membran must reach for an action potenti to be initiated. threshold
voltage-g ion channel a special ion channel that open or close in respons to chang in membran potential.
a special ion channel that open or close in respons to chang in membran potential. voltage-g ion channel
adren gland one of two endocrin gland locat adjac to the kidney in mammals. endocrin cell in the outer portion (cortex) respond to acth by secret steroid hormon that help maintain homeostasi dure long-term stress. neurosecretori cell in the central portion (medulla) secret epinephrin and norepinephrin in respons to nervous input trigger by short-term stress.
one of two endocrin gland locat adjac to the kidney in mammals. endocrin cell in the outer portion (cortex) respond to acth by secret steroid hormon that help maintain homeostasi dure long-term stress. neurosecretori cell in the central portion (medulla) secret epinephrin and norepinephrin in respons to nervous input trigger by short-term stress. adren gland
adrenocorticotrop hormon (acth) a tropic hormon that is produc and secret by the anterior pituitari and that stimul the product and secret of steroid hormon by the adren cortex.
a tropic hormon that is produc and secret by the anterior pituitari and that stimul the product and secret of steroid hormon by the adren cortex. adrenocorticotrop hormon (acth)
androgen ani steroid hormone, such as testosterone, that stimul the develop and mainten of the male reproduct system and secondari sex characteristics.
ani steroid hormone, such as testosterone, that stimul the develop and mainten of the male reproduct system and secondari sex characteristics. androgen
anterior pituitari also call the adenohypophysis; portion of the pituitari that develop from nonneur tissue; consist of endocrin cell that synthes and secret sever tropic and nontrop hormones.
also call the adenohypophysis; portion of the pituitari that develop from nonneur tissue; consist of endocrin cell that synthes and secret sever tropic and nontrop hormones. anterior pituitari
antidiuret hormon (adh) a peptid hormone, also known as vasopressin, that promot water retent by the kidneys. produc in the hypothalamus and releas from the posterior pituitary, [this] also has  in the brain.
a peptid hormone, also known as vasopressin, that promot water retent by the kidneys. produc in the hypothalamus and releas from the posterior pituitary, [this] also has  in the brain. antidiuret hormon (adh)
autocrin refer to a secret molecul that act on the cell that secret it.
refer to a secret molecul that act on the cell that secret it. autocrin
biolog clock an intern timekeep that control an organ biolog rhythms. [this] mark time with or without environment cue but often requir signal from the environ to remain tune to an appropri period. see also circadian rhythm.
an intern timekeep that control an organ biolog rhythms. [this] mark time with or without environment cue but often requir signal from the environ to remain tune to an appropri period. see also circadian rhythm. biolog clock
calcitonin a hormon secret by the thyroid gland that lower blood calcium level by promot calcium deposit in bone and calcium excret from the kidneys; nonessenti in adult humans.
a hormon secret by the thyroid gland that lower blood calcium level by promot calcium deposit in bone and calcium excret from the kidneys; nonessenti in adult humans. calcitonin
catecholamin ani of a class of neurotransmitt and hormones, includ the hormon epinephrin and norepinephrine, that are synthes from the amino acid tyrosine.
ani of a class of neurotransmitt and hormones, includ the hormon epinephrin and norepinephrine, that are synthes from the amino acid tyrosine. catecholamin
circadian rhythm a physiolog cycl of about 24 hour that is present in all eukaryot organ and that persist even in the absenc of extern cues.
a physiolog cycl of about 24 hour that is present in all eukaryot organ and that persist even in the absenc of extern cues. circadian rhythm
corticosteroid ani steroid hormon produc and secret by the adren cortex.
ani steroid hormon produc and secret by the adren cortex. corticosteroid
cytokin ani of a group of protein secret by a number of cell types, includ macrophag and helper t cells, that regul the function of lymphocyt and other cell of the immun system.
ani of a group of protein secret by a number of cell types, includ macrophag and helper t cells, that regul the function of lymphocyt and other cell of the immun system. cytokin
ecdyson a steroid hormone, secret by the prothorac glands, that trigger molt in arthropods.
a steroid hormone, secret by the prothorac glands, that trigger molt in arthropods. ecdyson
endocrin gland a ductless gland that secret hormon direct into the interstiti fluid, from which they diffus into the bloodstream.
a ductless gland that secret hormon direct into the interstiti fluid, from which they diffus into the bloodstream. endocrin gland
endocrin system the intern system of communic involv hormones, the ductless gland that secret hormones, and the molecular receptor on or in target cell that respond to hormones; function in concert with the nervous system to effect intern regul and maintain homeostasis.
the intern system of communic involv hormones, the ductless gland that secret hormones, and the molecular receptor on or in target cell that respond to hormones; function in concert with the nervous system to effect intern regul and maintain homeostasis. endocrin system
estradiol a steroid hormon that stimul the develop and mainten of the femal reproduct system and secondari sex characteristics; the major estrogen in mammals.
a steroid hormon that stimul the develop and mainten of the femal reproduct system and secondari sex characteristics; the major estrogen in mammals. estradiol
estrogen ani steroid hormone, such as estradiol, that stimul the develop and mainten of the femal reproduct system and secondari sex characteristics.
ani steroid hormone, such as estradiol, that stimul the develop and mainten of the femal reproduct system and secondari sex characteristics. estrogen
follicle-stimul hormon (fsh) a tropic hormon that is produc and secret by the anterior pituitari and that stimul the product of egg by the ovari and sperm by the testes.
a tropic hormon that is produc and secret by the anterior pituitari and that stimul the product of egg by the ovari and sperm by the testes. follicle-stimul hormon (fsh)
g protein-coupl receptor a signal receptor protein in the plasma membran that respond to the  of a signal molecul by  a g protein. also call a g protein-link receptor.
a signal receptor protein in the plasma membran that respond to the  of a signal molecul by  a g protein. also call a g protein-link receptor. g protein-coupl receptor
glucagon a hormon secret by pancreat alpha cell that rais blood glucos levels. it promot glycogen breakdown and releas of glucos by the liver.
a hormon secret by pancreat alpha cell that rais blood glucos levels. it promot glycogen breakdown and releas of glucos by the liver. glucagon
glucocorticoid a steroid hormon that is secret by the adren cortex and that influenc glucos metabol and immun function.
a steroid hormon that is secret by the adren cortex and that influenc glucos metabol and immun function. glucocorticoid
growth hormon (gh) a hormon that is produc and secret by the anterior pituitari and that has both direct (nontropic) and tropic effect on a wide varieti of tissues.
a hormon that is produc and secret by the anterior pituitari and that has both direct (nontropic) and tropic effect on a wide varieti of tissues. growth hormon (gh)
hormon in multicellular organisms, one of mani type of secret chemic that are  in special cells, travel in bodi fluids, and act on specif target cell in other part of the bodi to chang their functioning.
in multicellular organisms, one of mani type of secret chemic that are  in special cells, travel in bodi fluids, and act on specif target cell in other part of the bodi to chang their functioning. hormon
hypothalamus the ventral part of the vertebr forebrain; function in maintain homeostasis, especi in coordin the endocrin and nervous systems; secret hormon of the posterior pituitari and releas factor that regul the anterior pituitary.
the ventral part of the vertebr forebrain; function in maintain homeostasis, especi in coordin the endocrin and nervous systems; secret hormon of the posterior pituitari and releas factor that regul the anterior pituitary. hypothalamus
islet of langerhan cluster of endocrin cell within the pancrea that produc and secret the hormon glucagon (from alpha cells) and insulin (from beta cells).
cluster of endocrin cell within the pancrea that produc and secret the hormon glucagon (from alpha cells) and insulin (from beta cells). islet of langerhan
juvenil hormon a hormon in arthropods, secret by the corpora allata (a pair of glands), that promot the retent of larval characteristics.
a hormon in arthropods, secret by the corpora allata (a pair of glands), that promot the retent of larval characteristics. juvenil hormon
melanocyte-stimul hormon (msh) a hormon produc and secret by the anterior pituitari that regul the  of pigment-contain cell in the skin of some vertebrates.
a hormon produc and secret by the anterior pituitari that regul the  of pigment-contain cell in the skin of some vertebrates. melanocyte-stimul hormon (msh)
melatonin a hormon secret by the pineal gland that regul bodi function relat to season day length.
a hormon secret by the pineal gland that regul bodi function relat to season day length. melatonin
mineralocorticoid a steroid hormon secret by the adren cortex that regul salt and water homeostasis.
a steroid hormon secret by the adren cortex that regul salt and water homeostasis. mineralocorticoid
nervous system the fast-act intern system of communic involv sensori receptors, network of nerv cells, and connect to muscl and gland that respond to nerv signals; function in concert with the endocrin system to effect intern regul and maintain homeostasis.
the fast-act intern system of communic involv sensori receptors, network of nerv cells, and connect to muscl and gland that respond to nerv signals; function in concert with the endocrin system to effect intern regul and maintain homeostasis. nervous system
neurohormon a molecul that is secret by a neuron, travel in bodi fluids, and act on specif target cell to chang their functioning.
a molecul that is secret by a neuron, travel in bodi fluids, and act on specif target cell to chang their functioning. neurohormon
oxytocin a hormon produc by the hypothalamus and releas from the posterior pituitary. it induc contract of the uterin muscl dure labor and caus the mammari gland to eject milk dure nursing.
a hormon produc by the hypothalamus and releas from the posterior pituitary. it induc contract of the uterin muscl dure labor and caus the mammari gland to eject milk dure nursing. oxytocin
pancrea a gland with the follow dual functions: the nonendocrin portion function in digestion, secret enzym and an alkalin solut into the small intestin via a duct; the ductless endocrin portion function in homeostasis, secret the hormon insulin and glucagon into the blood.
a gland with the follow dual functions: the nonendocrin portion function in digestion, secret enzym and an alkalin solut into the small intestin via a duct; the ductless endocrin portion function in homeostasis, secret the hormon insulin and glucagon into the blood. pancrea
paracrin refer to a secret molecul that act on a neighbor cell.
refer to a secret molecul that act on a neighbor cell. paracrin
parathyroid gland ani of four small endocrin glands, embed in the surfac of the thyroid gland, that secret parathyroid hormone.
ani of four small endocrin glands, embed in the surfac of the thyroid gland, that secret parathyroid hormone. parathyroid gland
parathyroid hormon (pth) a hormon secret by the parathyroid gland that rais blood calcium level by promot calcium releas from bone and calcium retent by the kidneys.
a hormon secret by the parathyroid gland that rais blood calcium level by promot calcium releas from bone and calcium retent by the kidneys. parathyroid hormon (pth)
pheromon in anim and fungi, a small molecul releas into the environ that function in communic between member of the same species. in animals, it act much like a hormon in influenc physiolog and behavior.
in anim and fungi, a small molecul releas into the environ that function in communic between member of the same species. in animals, it act much like a hormon in influenc physiolog and behavior. pheromon
pineal gland a small gland on the dorsal surfac of the vertebr forebrain that secret the hormon melatonin.
a small gland on the dorsal surfac of the vertebr forebrain that secret the hormon melatonin. pineal gland
pituitari gland an endocrin gland at the base of the hypothalamus; consist of a posterior lobe (neurohypophysis), which store and releas two hormon produc by the hypothalamus, and an anterior lobe (adenohypophysis), which produc and secret mani hormon that regul divers bodi functions.
an endocrin gland at the base of the hypothalamus; consist of a posterior lobe (neurohypophysis), which store and releas two hormon produc by the hypothalamus, and an anterior lobe (adenohypophysis), which produc and secret mani hormon that regul divers bodi functions. pituitari gland
posterior pituitari also call the neurohypophysis; an extens of the hypothalamus compos of nervous tissu that secret oxytocin and antidiuret hormon made in the hypothalamus; a temporari storag site for these hormones.
also call the neurohypophysis; an extens of the hypothalamus compos of nervous tissu that secret oxytocin and antidiuret hormon made in the hypothalamus; a temporari storag site for these hormones. posterior pituitari
progesteron a steroid hormon that prepar the uterus for pregnancy; the major progestin in mammals.
a steroid hormon that prepar the uterus for pregnancy; the major progestin in mammals. progesteron
prolactin (prl) a hormon produc and secret by the anterior pituitari with a great divers of effect in differ vertebr species. in mammals, it stimul growth of and milk product by the mammari glands.
a hormon produc and secret by the anterior pituitari with a great divers of effect in differ vertebr species. in mammals, it stimul growth of and milk product by the mammari glands. prolactin (prl)
prostaglandin (pg) one of a group of modifi fatti acid secret by virtual all tissu and per a wide varieti of function as local regulators.
one of a group of modifi fatti acid secret by virtual all tissu and per a wide varieti of function as local regulators. prostaglandin (pg)
prostat gland a gland in human male that secret an acid-neutr compon of semen.
a gland in human male that secret an acid-neutr compon of semen. prostat gland
semen the fluid that is ejacul by the male dure orgasm; contain sperm and secret from sever gland of the male reproduct tract.
the fluid that is ejacul by the male dure orgasm; contain sperm and secret from sever gland of the male reproduct tract. semen
thyroid gland an endocrin gland, locat on the ventral surfac of the trachea, that secret two iodine-contain hormones, triiodothyronin (t3) and thyroxin (t4), as well as calcitonin.
an endocrin gland, locat on the ventral surfac of the trachea, that secret two iodine-contain hormones, triiodothyronin (t3) and thyroxin (t4), as well as calcitonin. thyroid gland
thyroxin (t4) one of two iodine-contain hormon that are secret by the thyroid gland and that help regul metabolism, development, and matur in vertebrates.
one of two iodine-contain hormon that are secret by the thyroid gland and that help regul metabolism, development, and matur in vertebrates. thyroxin (t4)
triiodothyronin (t3) one of two iodine-contain hormon that are secret by the thyroid gland and that help regul metabolism, development, and matur in vertebrates.
one of two iodine-contain hormon that are secret by the thyroid gland and that help regul metabolism, development, and matur in vertebrates. triiodothyronin (t3)
tropic hormon a hormon that has anoth endocrin gland as a target.
a hormon that has anoth endocrin gland as a target. tropic hormon
alzheim diseas an age-rel dementia (mental deterioration) character by confusion, memori loss, and other symptoms.
an age-rel dementia (mental deterioration) character by confusion, memori loss, and other symptoms. alzheim diseas
amygdala a structur in the tempor lobe of the vertebr brain that has a major role in the process of emotions.
a structur in the tempor lobe of the vertebr brain that has a major role in the process of emotions. amygdala
astrocyt a glial cell with divers functions, includ provid structur support for neurons, regul the interstiti environment, facilit synapt transmission, and assist in regul the blood suppli to the brain.
a glial cell with divers functions, includ provid structur support for neurons, regul the interstiti environment, facilit synapt transmission, and assist in regul the blood suppli to the brain. astrocyt
autonom nervous system an effer branch of the vertebr peripher nervous system that regul the intern environment; consist of the sympathetic, parasympathetic, and enter divisions.
an effer branch of the vertebr peripher nervous system that regul the intern environment; consist of the sympathetic, parasympathetic, and enter divisions. autonom nervous system
bipolar disord depress mental ill character by swing of mood from high to low; also call manic-depress disorder.
depress mental ill character by swing of mood from high to low; also call manic-depress disorder. bipolar disord
blood-brain barrier a special capillari arrang in the brain that restrict the passag of most substanc into the brain, therebi prevent dramat fluctuat in the brain environment.
a special capillari arrang in the brain that restrict the passag of most substanc into the brain, therebi prevent dramat fluctuat in the brain environment. blood-brain barrier
brainstem collect of structur in the vertebr brain, includ the midbrain, the pons, and the medulla oblongata; function in homeostasis, coordin of movement, and conduct of in to higher brain centers.
collect of structur in the vertebr brain, includ the midbrain, the pons, and the medulla oblongata; function in homeostasis, coordin of movement, and conduct of in to higher brain centers. brainstem
central canal the narrow caviti in the center of the spinal cord that is continu with the fluid-fil ventricl of the brain.
the narrow caviti in the center of the spinal cord that is continu with the fluid-fil ventricl of the brain. central canal
cephal an evolutionari trend toward the concentr of sensori equip at the anterior end of the body.
an evolutionari trend toward the concentr of sensori equip at the anterior end of the body. cephal
cerebellum part of the vertebr hindbrain locat dorsally; function in unconsci coordin of movement and balance.
part of the vertebr hindbrain locat dorsally; function in unconsci coordin of movement and balance. cerebellum
cerebr cortex the surfac of the cerebrum; the largest and most complex part of the mammalian brain, contain nerv cell bodi of the cerebrum; the part of the vertebr brain most chang through evolution.
the surfac of the cerebrum; the largest and most complex part of the mammalian brain, contain nerv cell bodi of the cerebrum; the part of the vertebr brain most chang through evolution. cerebr cortex
cerebr hemispher the right or left side of the cerebrum.
the right or left side of the cerebrum. cerebr hemispher
cerebrospin fluid blood-deriv fluid that surrounds, protect against infection, nourishes, and cushion the brain and spinal cord.
blood-deriv fluid that surrounds, protect against infection, nourishes, and cushion the brain and spinal cord. cerebrospin fluid
cerebrum the dorsal portion of the vertebr forebrain, compos of right and left hemispheres; the integr center for memory, learning, emotions, and other high complex function of the central nervous system.
the dorsal portion of the vertebr forebrain, compos of right and left hemispheres; the integr center for memory, learning, emotions, and other high complex function of the central nervous system. cerebrum
corpus callosum the thick band of nerv fiber that connect the right and left cerebr hemispher in mammals, enabl the hemispher to process in together.
the thick band of nerv fiber that connect the right and left cerebr hemispher in mammals, enabl the hemispher to process in together. corpus callosum
cranial nerv a nerv that origin in the brain and termin in an organ of the head or upper body.
a nerv that origin in the brain and termin in an organ of the head or upper body. cranial nerv
enter divis network of neuron in the digest tract, pancreas, and gallbladder; normal regul by the sympathet and parasympathet divis of the autonom nervous system.
network of neuron in the digest tract, pancreas, and gallbladder; normal regul by the sympathet and parasympathet divis of the autonom nervous system. enter divis
forebrain one of three ancestr and embryon region of the vertebr brain; develop into the thalamus, hypothalamus, and cerebrum.
one of three ancestr and embryon region of the vertebr brain; develop into the thalamus, hypothalamus, and cerebrum. forebrain
gray matter region of dendrit and cluster neuron cell bodi within the cns.
region of dendrit and cluster neuron cell bodi within the cns. gray matter
hindbrain one of three ancestr and embryon region of the vertebr brain; develop into the medulla oblongata, pons, and cerebellum.
one of three ancestr and embryon region of the vertebr brain; develop into the medulla oblongata, pons, and cerebellum. hindbrain
later segreg of function in the cortex of the left and right hemispher of the brain.
segreg of function in the cortex of the left and right hemispher of the brain. later
long-term memori the abil to hold, associate, and recal in over one lifetime.
the abil to hold, associate, and recal in over one lifetime. long-term memori
long-term potenti (ltp) an enhanc respons to an action potenti (nerv signal) by a receiv neuron.
an enhanc respons to an action potenti (nerv signal) by a receiv neuron. long-term potenti (ltp)
major depress disord a mood disord character by feel of sadness, lack of self-worth, emptiness, or loss of interest in near all things.
a mood disord character by feel of sadness, lack of self-worth, emptiness, or loss of interest in near all things. major depress disord
medulla oblongata the lowest part of the vertebr brain, common call the medulla; a swell of the hindbrain anterior to the spinal cord that control autonomic, homeostat functions, includ breathing, heart and blood vessel ity, swallowing, digestion, and vomiting.
the lowest part of the vertebr brain, common call the medulla; a swell of the hindbrain anterior to the spinal cord that control autonomic, homeostat functions, includ breathing, heart and blood vessel ity, swallowing, digestion, and vomiting. medulla oblongata
midbrain one of three ancestr and embryon region of the vertebr brain; develop into sensori integr and relay center that send sensori in to the cerebrum.
one of three ancestr and embryon region of the vertebr brain; develop into sensori integr and relay center that send sensori in to the cerebrum. midbrain
motor system an effer branch of the vertebr peripher nervous system compos of motor neuron that carri signal to skelet muscl in respons to extern stimuli.
an effer branch of the vertebr peripher nervous system compos of motor neuron that carri signal to skelet muscl in respons to extern stimuli. motor system
nerv a ropelik bundl of neuron fiber (axons) tight wrap in connect tissue.
a ropelik bundl of neuron fiber (axons) tight wrap in connect tissue. nerv
nerv net a weblik system of neurons, characterist of radial symmetr animals, such as hydra.
a weblik system of neurons, characterist of radial symmetr animals, such as hydra. nerv net
neural plastic the capac of a nervous system to chang with experience.
the capac of a nervous system to chang with experience. neural plastic
parasympathet divis one of three divis of the autonom nervous system; general enhanc bodi  that gain and conserv energy, such as digest and reduc heart rate.
one of three divis of the autonom nervous system; general enhanc bodi  that gain and conserv energy, such as digest and reduc heart rate. parasympathet divis
pon portion of the brain that particip in certain automatic, homeostat functions, such as regul the breath center in the medulla.
portion of the brain that particip in certain automatic, homeostat functions, such as regul the breath center in the medulla. pon
radial glia in an embryo, support cell that  track along which newli  neuron migrat from the neural tube; can also act as stem cell that give rise to other glia and neurons.
in an embryo, support cell that  track along which newli  neuron migrat from the neural tube; can also act as stem cell that give rise to other glia and neurons. radial glia
reflex an automat reaction to a stimulus, mediat by the spinal cord or lower brain.
an automat reaction to a stimulus, mediat by the spinal cord or lower brain. reflex
reticular at a diffus network of neuron in the core of the brainstem that filter in travel to the cerebr cortex.
a diffus network of neuron in the core of the brainstem that filter in travel to the cerebr cortex. reticular at
schizophrenia sever mental disturb character by psychot episod in which patient lose the abil to distinguish realiti from hallucination.
sever mental disturb character by psychot episod in which patient lose the abil to distinguish realiti from hallucination. schizophrenia
short-term memori the abil to hold ination, anticipations, or goal for a time and then releas them if they becom irrelevant.
the abil to hold ination, anticipations, or goal for a time and then releas them if they becom irrelevant. short-term memori
spinal nerv in the vertebr peripher nervous system, a nerv that carri signal to or from the spinal cord.
in the vertebr peripher nervous system, a nerv that carri signal to or from the spinal cord. spinal nerv
suprachiasmat nucleus (scn) a group of neuron in the hypothalamus of mammal that function as a biolog clock.
a group of neuron in the hypothalamus of mammal that function as a biolog clock. suprachiasmat nucleus (scn)
sympathet divis one of three divis of the autonom nervous system of vertebrates; general increas energi expenditur and prepar the bodi for action.
one of three divis of the autonom nervous system of vertebrates; general increas energi expenditur and prepar the bodi for action. sympathet divis
thalamus one of two integr center of the vertebr forebrain. neuron with cell bodi in the [this] relay neural input to specif area in the cerebr cortex and regul what in goe to the cerebr cortex.
one of two integr center of the vertebr forebrain. neuron with cell bodi in the [this] relay neural input to specif area in the cerebr cortex and regul what in goe to the cerebr cortex. thalamus
twin studi a behavior studi in which research compar the behavior of ident twin rais apart with that of ident twin rais in the same household.
a behavior studi in which research compar the behavior of ident twin rais apart with that of ident twin rais in the same household. twin studi
ventricl (1) a heart chamber that pump blood out of the heart. (2) a space in the vertebr brain, fill with cerebrospin fluid.
(1) a heart chamber that pump blood out of the heart. (2) a space in the vertebr brain, fill with cerebrospin fluid. ventricl
white matter tract of axon within the cns.
tract of axon within the cns. white matter
acquir immun a vertebrate-specif defens that is mediat by b lymphocyt (b cells) and t lymphocyt (t cells). it exhibit specificity, memory, and self-nonself recognition. also call adapt immunity.
a vertebrate-specif defens that is mediat by b lymphocyt (b cells) and t lymphocyt (t cells). it exhibit specificity, memory, and self-nonself recognition. also call adapt immunity. acquir immun
 immun long-last immun confer by the action of b cell and t cell and the  b and t memori cell specif for a pathogen. [this] can develop as a  of natur infect or immunization.
long-last immun confer by the action of b cell and t cell and the  b and t memori cell specif for a pathogen. [this] can develop as a  of natur infect or immunization.  immun
antibodi a protein secret by plasma cell (differenti b cells) that  to a particular antigen; also call immunoglobulin. all [this] molecul have the same y-shape structur and in their monom  consist of two ident heavi chain and two ident light chains.
a protein secret by plasma cell (differenti b cells) that  to a particular antigen; also call immunoglobulin. all [this] molecul have the same y-shape structur and in their monom  consist of two ident heavi chain and two ident light chains. antibodi
antigen a macromolecul that elicit an immun respons by  to receptor of b cell or t cell
a macromolecul that elicit an immun respons by  to receptor of b cell or t cell antigen
antigen present the process by which an mhc molecul  to a fragment of an intracellular protein antigen and carri it to the cell surface, where it is  and can be recogn by a t cell.
the process by which an mhc molecul  to a fragment of an intracellular protein antigen and carri it to the cell surface, where it is  and can be recogn by a t cell. antigen present
antigen receptor the general term for a surfac protein, locat on b cell and t cells, that  to antigens, initi acquir immun responses. the [these] on b cell are call b cell receptors, and the [these] on t cell are call t cell receptors.
the general term for a surfac protein, locat on b cell and t cells, that  to antigens, initi acquir immun responses. the [these] on b cell are call b cell receptors, and the [these] on t cell are call t cell receptors. antigen receptor
antigen-pres cell a cell that upon ingest pathogen or intern pathogen protein generat peptid fragment that are bound by class ii mhc molecul and subsequ  on the cell surfac to t cells. macrophages, dendrit cells, and b cell are the primari [these].
a cell that upon ingest pathogen or intern pathogen protein generat peptid fragment that are bound by class ii mhc molecul and subsequ  on the cell surfac to t cells. macrophages, dendrit cells, and b cell are the primari [these]. antigen-pres cell
autoimmun diseas an immunolog disord in which the immun system turn against self.
an immunolog disord in which the immun system turn against self. autoimmun diseas
b cell receptor the antigen receptor on b cells: a y-shaped, membrane-bound molecul consist of two ident heavi chain and two ident light chain link by disulfid bridg and contain two antigen- sites.
the antigen receptor on b cells: a y-shaped, membrane-bound molecul consist of two ident heavi chain and two ident light chain link by disulfid bridg and contain two antigen- sites. b cell receptor
b cell the lymphocyt that complet their develop in the bone marrow and becom effector cell for the humor immun response.
the lymphocyt that complet their develop in the bone marrow and becom effector cell for the humor immun response. b cell
cd4 a surfac protein, present on most helper t cells, that  to class ii mhc molecules, enhanc the interact between the t cell and an antigen-pres cell.
a surfac protein, present on most helper t cells, that  to class ii mhc molecules, enhanc the interact between the t cell and an antigen-pres cell. cd4
cd8 a surfac protein, present on most cytotox t cells, that  to class i mhc molecules, enhanc the interact between the t cell and a target cell.
a surfac protein, present on most cytotox t cells, that  to class i mhc molecules, enhanc the interact between the t cell and a target cell. cd8
cell-medi immun respons the branch of acquir immun that involv the  of cytotox t cells, which defend against infect cells.
the branch of acquir immun that involv the  of cytotox t cells, which defend against infect cells. cell-medi immun respons
class i mhc molecul a type of mhc molecul found on the surfac of near all nucleat cell and that function in identif of infect cell by cytotox t ells.
a type of mhc molecul found on the surfac of near all nucleat cell and that function in identif of infect cell by cytotox t ells. class i mhc molecul
class ii mhc molecul a type of mhc molecul restrict to a few special immun cell type (dendrit cells, macrophages, and b cells) that serv as antigen-pres cells.
a type of mhc molecul restrict to a few special immun cell type (dendrit cells, macrophages, and b cells) that serv as antigen-pres cells. class ii mhc molecul
clonal select the process by which an antigen select  to and  onli those lymphocyt bear receptor specif for the antigen. the select lymphocyt prolifer and differenti into a clone of effector cell and a clone of memori cell specif for the stimul antigen.
the process by which an antigen select  to and  onli those lymphocyt bear receptor specif for the antigen. the select lymphocyt prolifer and differenti into a clone of effector cell and a clone of memori cell specif for the stimul antigen. clonal select
complement system a group of about 30 blood protein that may amplifi the inflammatori response, enhanc phagocytosis, or direct lyse extracellular pathogens.
a group of about 30 blood protein that may amplifi the inflammatori response, enhanc phagocytosis, or direct lyse extracellular pathogens. complement system
cytokin ani of a group of protein secret by a number of cell types, includ macrophag and helper t cells, that regul the function of lymphocyt and other cell of the immun system.
ani of a group of protein secret by a number of cell types, includ macrophag and helper t cells, that regul the function of lymphocyt and other cell of the immun system. cytokin
cytotox t cell a type of lymphocyt that, when ated, kill infect cell as well as certain cancer cell and transplant cells.
a type of lymphocyt that, when ated, kill infect cell as well as certain cancer cell and transplant cells. cytotox t cell
dendrit cell an antigen-pres cell, locat main in lymphat tissu and skin, that is particular effici in present antigen to helper t cells, therebi initi a primari immun response.
an antigen-pres cell, locat main in lymphat tissu and skin, that is particular effici in present antigen to helper t cells, therebi initi a primari immun response. dendrit cell
effector cell (1) a muscl cell or gland cell that per the bodi respons to stimuli as direct by signal from the brain or other process center of the nervous system. (2) a lymphocyt that has undergon clonal select and is capabl of mediat an acquir immun response.
(1) a muscl cell or gland cell that per the bodi respons to stimuli as direct by signal from the brain or other process center of the nervous system. (2) a lymphocyt that has undergon clonal select and is capabl of mediat an acquir immun response. effector cell
eosinophil a type of white blood cell with low phagocyt  that is thought to play a role in defens against parasit worm by releas enzym toxic to these invaders.
a type of white blood cell with low phagocyt  that is thought to play a role in defens against parasit worm by releas enzym toxic to these invaders. eosinophil
epitop a small, access region of an antigen to which an antigen receptor or antibodi s; also call an antigen determinant.
a small, access region of an antigen to which an antigen receptor or antibodi s; also call an antigen determinant. epitop
heavi chain one of the two type of polypeptid chain that make up an antibodi molecul and b cell receptor; consist of a variabl region, which contribut to the antigen- site, and a constant region.
one of the two type of polypeptid chain that make up an antibodi molecul and b cell receptor; consist of a variabl region, which contribut to the antigen- site, and a constant region. heavi chain
helper t cell a type of t cell that, when ated, secret cytokin that promot the respons of b cell (humor response) and cytotox t cell (cell-medi response) to antigens.
a type of t cell that, when ated, secret cytokin that promot the respons of b cell (humor response) and cytotox t cell (cell-medi response) to antigens. helper t cell
histamin a substanc releas by mast cell that caus blood vessel to dilat and becom more permeabl in inflammatori and allerg responses.
a substanc releas by mast cell that caus blood vessel to dilat and becom more permeabl in inflammatori and allerg responses. histamin
human chorion gonadotropin (hcg) a hormon secret by the chorion that maintain the corpus luteum of the ovari dure the first three month of pregnancy.
a hormon secret by the chorion that maintain the corpus luteum of the ovari dure the first three month of pregnancy. human chorion gonadotropin (hcg)
humor immun respons the branch of acquir immun that involv the  of b cell and that lead to the product of antibodies, which defend against bacteria and virus in bodi fluids.
the branch of acquir immun that involv the  of b cell and that lead to the product of antibodies, which defend against bacteria and virus in bodi fluids. humor immun respons
immun system an anim bodi system of defens against agent that caus disease.
an anim bodi system of defens against agent that caus disease. immun system
immun the process of generat a state of immun by artifici means. in  [this], also call vaccination, an inact or weaken  of a pathogen is administered, induc b and t cell respons and immunolog memory. in passiv [this], antibodi specif for a particular microb are administered, confer immedi but temporari protection.
the process of generat a state of immun by artifici means. in  [this], also call vaccination, an inact or weaken  of a pathogen is administered, induc b and t cell respons and immunolog memory. in passiv [this], antibodi specif for a particular microb are administered, confer immedi but temporari protection. immun
immunodefici a disord in which the abil of an immun system to protect against pathogen is defect or absent.
a disord in which the abil of an immun system to protect against pathogen is defect or absent. immunodefici
immunoglobulin (ig) ani of the class of protein that function as antibodies. [these] are divid into five major class that differ in their distribut in the bodi and antigen dispos ities.
ani of the class of protein that function as antibodies. [these] are divid into five major class that differ in their distribut in the bodi and antigen dispos ities. immunoglobulin (ig)
inflammatori respons an innat immun defens trigger by physic injuri or infect of tissu involv the releas of substanc that promot swelling, enhanc the infiltr of white blood cells, and aid in tissu repair and destruct of invad pathogens.
an innat immun defens trigger by physic injuri or infect of tissu involv the releas of substanc that promot swelling, enhanc the infiltr of white blood cells, and aid in tissu repair and destruct of invad pathogens. inflammatori respons
innat immun a  of defens common to all anim that is  immedi upon exposur to pathogen and that is the same whether or not the pathogen has been encount previously.
a  of defens common to all anim that is  immedi upon exposur to pathogen and that is the same whether or not the pathogen has been encount previously. innat immun
interferon a protein that has antivir or immun regulatori functions. [this]-α and [this]-β, secret by virus-infect cells, help nearbi cell resist viral infection; [this]-γ, secret by t cells, help  macrophages.
a protein that has antivir or immun regulatori functions. [this]-α and [this]-β, secret by virus-infect cells, help nearbi cell resist viral infection; [this]-γ, secret by t cells, help  macrophages. interferon
light chain one of the two type of polypeptid chain that make up an antibodi molecul and b cell receptor; consist of a variabl region, which contribut to the antigen- site, and a constant region.
one of the two type of polypeptid chain that make up an antibodi molecul and b cell receptor; consist of a variabl region, which contribut to the antigen- site, and a constant region. light chain
lymphocyt a type of white blood cell that mediat acquir immunity. the two main class are b cell and t cells.
a type of white blood cell that mediat acquir immunity. the two main class are b cell and t cells. lymphocyt
macrophag a phagocyt cell present in mani tissu that function in innat immun by destroy microb and in acquir immun as an antigen-pres cell.
a phagocyt cell present in mani tissu that function in innat immun by destroy microb and in acquir immun as an antigen-pres cell. macrophag
major histocompat complex (mhc) a famili of gene that encod a larg set of cell-surfac protein that function in antigen presentation. foreign [this] molecul on transplant tissu can trigger t cell respons that may lead to reject of the transplant.
a famili of gene that encod a larg set of cell-surfac protein that function in antigen presentation. foreign [this] molecul on transplant tissu can trigger t cell respons that may lead to reject of the transplant. major histocompat complex (mhc)
mast cell a vertebr bodi cell that produc histamin and other molecul that trigger inflamm in respons to infect and in allerg reactions.
a vertebr bodi cell that produc histamin and other molecul that trigger inflamm in respons to infect and in allerg reactions. mast cell
memori cell one of a clone of long-liv lymphocytes,  dure the primari immun response, that remain in a lymphoid organ until  by exposur to the same antigen that trigger it ation.  [these] mount the secondari immun response.
one of a clone of long-liv lymphocytes,  dure the primari immun response, that remain in a lymphoid organ until  by exposur to the same antigen that trigger it ation.  [these] mount the secondari immun response. memori cell
monoclon antibodi ani of a prepar of antibodi that have been produc by a singl clone of cultur cell and thus are all specif for the same epitope.
ani of a prepar of antibodi that have been produc by a singl clone of cultur cell and thus are all specif for the same epitope. monoclon antibodi
natur killer (nk) cell a type of white blood cell that can kill tumor cell and virus-infect cell as part of innat immunity.
a type of white blood cell that can kill tumor cell and virus-infect cell as part of innat immunity. natur killer (nk) cell
neutrophil the most abund type of white blood cell. [these] are phagocyt and tend to self-destruct as they destroy foreign invaders, limit their life span to a few days.
the most abund type of white blood cell. [these] are phagocyt and tend to self-destruct as they destroy foreign invaders, limit their life span to a few days. neutrophil
passiv immun short-term immun confer by the transfer of antibodies, as occur in the transfer of matern antibodi to a fetus or nurs infant.
short-term immun confer by the transfer of antibodies, as occur in the transfer of matern antibodi to a fetus or nurs infant. passiv immun
pathogen an organ or virus that caus disease.
an organ or virus that caus disease. pathogen
plasma cell the antibody-secret effector cell of humor immunity; aris from antigen-stimul b cells.
the antibody-secret effector cell of humor immunity; aris from antigen-stimul b cells. plasma cell
primari immun respons the initi acquir immun respons to an antigen, which appear after a lag of about 10 to 17 days.
the initi acquir immun respons to an antigen, which appear after a lag of about 10 to 17 days. primari immun respons
secondari immun respons the acquir immun respons elicit on second or subsequ exposur to a particular antigen. the [this] is more rapid, of greater magnitude, and of longer durat than the primari immun response.
the acquir immun respons elicit on second or subsequ exposur to a particular antigen. the [this] is more rapid, of greater magnitude, and of longer durat than the primari immun response. secondari immun respons
t cell the class of lymphocyt that matur in the thymus and that includ both effector cell for the cell-medi immun respons and helper cell requir for both branch of adapt immunity.
the class of lymphocyt that matur in the thymus and that includ both effector cell for the cell-medi immun respons and helper cell requir for both branch of adapt immunity. t cell
t cell receptor the antigen receptor on t cells; a membrane-bound molecul consist of one α chain and one β chain link by a disulfid bridg and contain one antigen- site.
the antigen receptor on t cells; a membrane-bound molecul consist of one α chain and one β chain link by a disulfid bridg and contain one antigen- site. t cell receptor
thymus a small organ in the thorac caviti of vertebr where matur of t cell is completed.
a small organ in the thorac caviti of vertebr where matur of t cell is completed. thymus
toll-lik receptor (tlr) a membran receptor on a phagocyt white blood cell that recogn fragment of molecul common to a set of pathogens.
a membran receptor on a phagocyt white blood cell that recogn fragment of molecul common to a set of pathogens. toll-lik receptor (tlr)
affer arteriol in the kidney, the blood vessel suppli a nephron.
in the kidney, the blood vessel suppli a nephron. affer arteriol
aldosteron a steroid hormon that act on tubul of the kidney to regul the transport of sodium ion (na+) and potassium ion (k+).
a steroid hormon that act on tubul of the kidney to regul the transport of sodium ion (na+) and potassium ion (k+). aldosteron
angiotensin ii a peptid hormon that stimul constrict of precapillari arteriol and increas reabsorpt of nacl and water by the proxim tubul of the kidney, increas blood pressur and volume.
a peptid hormon that stimul constrict of precapillari arteriol and increas reabsorpt of nacl and water by the proxim tubul of the kidney, increas blood pressur and volume. angiotensin ii
anhydrobiosi a dormant state involv loss of almost all bodi water.
a dormant state involv loss of almost all bodi water. anhydrobiosi
atrial natriuret peptid (anp) a peptid hormon secret by cell of the atria of the heart in respons to high blood pressure. [this] effect on the kidney alter ion and water movement and therebi reduc blood pressure.
a peptid hormon secret by cell of the atria of the heart in respons to high blood pressure. [this] effect on the kidney alter ion and water movement and therebi reduc blood pressure. atrial natriuret peptid (anp)
bowman capsul a cup-shap receptacl in the vertebr kidney that is the initial, expand segment of the nephron where filtrat enter from the blood.
a cup-shap receptacl in the vertebr kidney that is the initial, expand segment of the nephron where filtrat enter from the blood. bowman capsul
collect duct the locat in the kidney where process filtrate, call urine, is collect from the renal tubules.
the locat in the kidney where process filtrate, call urine, is collect from the renal tubules. collect duct
cortic nephron in mammal and birds, a nephron with a loop of henl locat almost entir in the renal cortex.
in mammal and birds, a nephron with a loop of henl locat almost entir in the renal cortex. cortic nephron
countercurr multipli system a countercurr system in which energi is expend in  transport to facilit exchang of materi and generat concentr gradients.
a countercurr system in which energi is expend in  transport to facilit exchang of materi and generat concentr gradients. countercurr multipli system
distal tubul in the vertebr kidney, the portion of a nephron that help refin filtrat and empti it into a collect duct.
in the vertebr kidney, the portion of a nephron that help refin filtrat and empti it into a collect duct. distal tubul
effer arteriol in the kidney, the blood vessel drain a nephron.
in the kidney, the blood vessel drain a nephron. effer arteriol
euryhalin refer to organ that toler substanti chang in extern osmolarity.
refer to organ that toler substanti chang in extern osmolarity. euryhalin
excret the dispos of nitrogen-contain metabolit and other wast products.
the dispos of nitrogen-contain metabolit and other wast products. excret
filtrat cell-fre fluid extract from the bodi fluid by the excretori system.
cell-fre fluid extract from the bodi fluid by the excretori system. filtrat
filtrat in excretori systems, the extract of water and small solutes, includ metabol wastes, from the bodi fluid.
in excretori systems, the extract of water and small solutes, includ metabol wastes, from the bodi fluid. filtrat
glomerulus a ball of capillari surround by bowman capsul in the nephron and serv as the site of filtrat in the vertebr kidney.
a ball of capillari surround by bowman capsul in the nephron and serv as the site of filtrat in the vertebr kidney. glomerulus
juxtaglomerular apparatus (jga) a special tissu in nephron that releas the enzym renin in respons to a drop in blood pressur or volume.
a special tissu in nephron that releas the enzym renin in respons to a drop in blood pressur or volume. juxtaglomerular apparatus (jga)
juxtamedullari nephron in mammal and birds, a nephron with a loop of henl that extend far into the renal medulla.
in mammal and birds, a nephron with a loop of henl that extend far into the renal medulla. juxtamedullari nephron
loop of henl the hairpin turn, with a descend and ascend limb, between the proxim and distal tubul of the vertebr kidney; function in water and salt reabsorption.
the hairpin turn, with a descend and ascend limb, between the proxim and distal tubul of the vertebr kidney; function in water and salt reabsorption. loop of henl
malpighian tubul a uniqu excretori organ of insect that empti into the digest tract, remov nitrogen wast from the hemolymph, and function in osmoregulation.
a uniqu excretori organ of insect that empti into the digest tract, remov nitrogen wast from the hemolymph, and function in osmoregulation. malpighian tubul
metanephridium an excretori organ found in mani invertebr that typic consist of tubul connect ciliat intern open to extern openings.
an excretori organ found in mani invertebr that typic consist of tubul connect ciliat intern open to extern openings. metanephridium
nephron the tubular excretori unit of the vertebr kidney.
the tubular excretori unit of the vertebr kidney. nephron
osmocon an anim that is isoosmot with it environment.
an anim that is isoosmot with it environment. osmocon
osmolar solut concentr express as molarity.
solut concentr express as molarity. osmolar
osmoregul an anim that control it intern osmolar independ of the extern environment.
an anim that control it intern osmolar independ of the extern environment. osmoregul
peritubular capillari one of the tini blood vessel that  a network surround the proxim and distal tubul in the kidney.
one of the tini blood vessel that  a network surround the proxim and distal tubul in the kidney. peritubular capillari
protonephridia an excretori system, such as the flame bulb system of flatworms, consist of a network of tubul lack intern openings.
an excretori system, such as the flame bulb system of flatworms, consist of a network of tubul lack intern openings. protonephridia
proxim tubul in the vertebr kidney, the portion of a nephron immedi downstream from bowman capsul that convey and help refin filtrate.
in the vertebr kidney, the portion of a nephron immedi downstream from bowman capsul that convey and help refin filtrate. proxim tubul
reabsorpt in excretori systems, the recoveri of solut and water from filtrate.
in excretori systems, the recoveri of solut and water from filtrate. reabsorpt
renal arteri the blood vessel bring blood to the kidney.
the blood vessel bring blood to the kidney. renal arteri
renal cortex the outer portion of the vertebr kidney.
the outer portion of the vertebr kidney. renal cortex
renal medulla the inner portion of the vertebr kidney, beneath the renal cortex.
the inner portion of the vertebr kidney, beneath the renal cortex. renal medulla
renal pelvi the funnel-shap chamber that receiv process filtrat from the vertebr kidney collect duct and is drain by the ureter.
the funnel-shap chamber that receiv process filtrat from the vertebr kidney collect duct and is drain by the ureter. renal pelvi
renal vein the blood vessel that carri blood away from the kidney.
the blood vessel that carri blood away from the kidney. renal vein
renin-angiotensin-aldosteron system (raas) a hormon cascad pathway that help regul blood pressur and blood volume.
a hormon cascad pathway that help regul blood pressur and blood volume. renin-angiotensin-aldosteron system (raas)
secret (1) the discharg of molecul synthes by a cell. (2) the discharg of wast from the bodi fluid into the filtrate.
(1) the discharg of molecul synthes by a cell. (2) the discharg of wast from the bodi fluid into the filtrate. secret
stenohalin refer to organ that cannot toler substanti chang in extern osmolarity.
refer to organ that cannot toler substanti chang in extern osmolarity. stenohalin
transport epithelium one or more layer of special epitheli cell that regul solut movements.
one or more layer of special epitheli cell that regul solut movements. transport epithelium
uret a duct lead from the kidney to the urinari bladder.
a duct lead from the kidney to the urinari bladder. uret
urethra a tube that releas urin from the mammalian bodi near the vagina in femal and through the peni in males; also serv in male as the exit tube for the reproduct system.
a tube that releas urin from the mammalian bodi near the vagina in femal and through the peni in males; also serv in male as the exit tube for the reproduct system. urethra
uric acid a product of protein and purin metabol and the major nitrogen wast product of insects, land snails, and mani reptiles. [this] is relat nontox and larg insoluble.
a product of protein and purin metabol and the major nitrogen wast product of insects, land snails, and mani reptiles. [this] is relat nontox and larg insoluble. uric acid
urinari bladder the pouch where urin is store prior to elimination.
the pouch where urin is store prior to elimination. urinari bladder
vasa recta the capillari system in the kidney that serv the loop of henle.
the capillari system in the kidney that serv the loop of henle. vasa recta
acclimat physiolog adjust to a chang in an environment factor.
physiolog adjust to a chang in an environment factor. acclimat
adipos tissu a connect tissu that insul the bodi and serv as a fuel reserve; contain fat-stor cell call adipos cells.
a connect tissu that insul the bodi and serv as a fuel reserve; contain fat-stor cell call adipos cells. adipos tissu
amoeba a protist grade character by the presenc of pseudopodia.
a protist grade character by the presenc of pseudopodia. amoeba
anatomi the structur of an organ and it study.
the structur of an organ and it study. anatomi
basal metabol rate (bmr) the metabol rate of a resting, fasting, and nonstress endotherm at a comfort temperature.
the metabol rate of a resting, fasting, and nonstress endotherm at a comfort temperature. basal metabol rate (bmr)
blood a connect tissu with a fluid matrix call plasma in which red blood cells, white blood cells, and cell fragment call platelet are suspended.
a connect tissu with a fluid matrix call plasma in which red blood cells, white blood cells, and cell fragment call platelet are suspended. blood
bone a connect tissu consist of live cell held in a rigid matrix of collagen fiber embed in calcium salts.
a connect tissu consist of live cell held in a rigid matrix of collagen fiber embed in calcium salts. bone
cardiac muscl a type of muscl that  the contractil wall of the heart. it cell are join by intercal disk that relay each heartbeat.
a type of muscl that  the contractil wall of the heart. it cell are join by intercal disk that relay each heartbeat. cardiac muscl
cartilag a flexibl connect tissu with an abund of collagen fiber embed in chondroitin sulfate.
a flexibl connect tissu with an abund of collagen fiber embed in chondroitin sulfate. cartilag
conduct the direct transfer of thermal motion (heat) between molecul of object in direct contact with each other.
the direct transfer of thermal motion (heat) between molecul of object in direct contact with each other. conduct
con an anim for which an intern condit con with a chang in an environment variable.
an anim for which an intern condit con with a chang in an environment variable. con
connect tissu anim tissu that function main to  and support other tissues, have a spars popul of cell scatter through an extracellular matrix.
anim tissu that function main to  and support other tissues, have a spars popul of cell scatter through an extracellular matrix. connect tissu
convect the mass movement of warm air or liquid to or from the surfac of a bodi or object.
the mass movement of warm air or liquid to or from the surfac of a bodi or object. convect
countercurr exchang the exchang of a substanc or heat between two fluid flow in opposit directions. for example, blood in a fish gill flow in the opposit direct of water pass over the gill, maxim diffus of oxygen into and carbon dioxid out of the blood.
the exchang of a substanc or heat between two fluid flow in opposit directions. for example, blood in a fish gill flow in the opposit direct of water pass over the gill, maxim diffus of oxygen into and carbon dioxid out of the blood. countercurr exchang
ectotherm refer to organ for which extern sourc provid most of the heat for temperatur regulation.
refer to organ for which extern sourc provid most of the heat for temperatur regulation. ectotherm
endotherm refer to organ with bodi that are warm by heat generat by metabolism. this heat is usual use to maintain a relat stabl bodi temperatur higher than that of the extern environment.
refer to organ with bodi that are warm by heat generat by metabolism. this heat is usual use to maintain a relat stabl bodi temperatur higher than that of the extern environment. endotherm
epidermi (1) the dermal tissu system of nonwoodi plants, usual consist of a singl layer of tight pack cells. (2) the outermost layer of cell in an animal.
(1) the dermal tissu system of nonwoodi plants, usual consist of a singl layer of tight pack cells. (2) the outermost layer of cell in an animal. epidermi
epitheli tissu sheet of tight pack cell that line organ and bodi caviti as well as extern surfaces.
sheet of tight pack cell that line organ and bodi caviti as well as extern surfaces. epitheli tissu
fibroblast a type of cell in loos connect tissu that secret the protein ingredi of the extracellular fibers.
a type of cell in loos connect tissu that secret the protein ingredi of the extracellular fibers. fibroblast
hibern a physiolog state in which metabol decreases, the heart and respiratori system slow down, and bodi temperatur is maintain at a lower level than normal.
a physiolog state in which metabol decreases, the heart and respiratori system slow down, and bodi temperatur is maintain at a lower level than normal. hibern
homeostasi the steady-st physiolog condit of the body.
the steady-st physiolog condit of the body. homeostasi
integumentari system the outer cover of a mammal body, includ skin, hair, and nails.
the outer cover of a mammal body, includ skin, hair, and nails. integumentari system
ligament a fibrous connect tissu that join bone togeth at joints.
a fibrous connect tissu that join bone togeth at joints. ligament
metabol rate the total amount of energi an anim use in a unit of time.
the total amount of energi an anim use in a unit of time. metabol rate
muscl tissu tissu consist of long muscl cell that can contract, either on it own or when stimul by nerv impulses.
tissu consist of long muscl cell that can contract, either on it own or when stimul by nerv impulses. muscl tissu
normal rang an upper and lower limit of a variable.
an upper and lower limit of a variable. normal rang
organ a special center of bodi function compos of sever differ type of tissues.
a special center of bodi function compos of sever differ type of tissues. organ
organ system a group of organ that work togeth in per vital bodi functions.
a group of organ that work togeth in per vital bodi functions. organ system
physiolog the process and function of an organ and their study.
the process and function of an organ and their study. physiolog
regul an anim for which mechan of homeostasi moder intern chang in the face of extern fluctuations.
an anim for which mechan of homeostasi moder intern chang in the face of extern fluctuations. regul
respons (1) in cellular communication, the chang in a specif cellular  brought about by a transduc signal from outsid the cell. (2) in homeostasis, a physiolog  that help return a variabl to a set point.
(1) in cellular communication, the chang in a specif cellular  brought about by a transduc signal from outsid the cell. (2) in homeostasis, a physiolog  that help return a variabl to a set point. respons
sensor in homeostasis, a receptor that detect a stimulus.
in homeostasis, a receptor that detect a stimulus. sensor
set point in anim bodies, a valu maintain for a particular variable, such as bodi temperatur or solut concentration, to achiev homeostasis.
in anim bodies, a valu maintain for a particular variable, such as bodi temperatur or solut concentration, to achiev homeostasis. set point
standard metabol rate (smr) the metabol rate of a resting, fasting, and nonstress ectotherm at a particular temperature.
the metabol rate of a resting, fasting, and nonstress ectotherm at a particular temperature. standard metabol rate (smr)
stimulus in homeostasis, a fluctuat in a variabl that trigger a return to a set point.
in homeostasis, a fluctuat in a variabl that trigger a return to a set point. stimulus
tendon a fibrous connect tissu that attach muscl to bone.
a fibrous connect tissu that attach muscl to bone. tendon
thermoregul the mainten of intern bodi temperatur within a toler range.
the mainten of intern bodi temperatur within a toler range. thermoregul
tissu an integr group of cell with a common function, structure, or both.
an integr group of cell with a common function, structure, or both. tissu
torpor a physiolog state in which  is low and metabol decreases.
a physiolog state in which  is low and metabol decreases. torpor
vasoconstrict a decreas in the diamet of blood vessel caus by contract of smooth muscl in the vessel walls.
a decreas in the diamet of blood vessel caus by contract of smooth muscl in the vessel walls. vasoconstrict
vasodil an increas in the diamet of blood vessel caus by relax of smooth muscl in the vessel walls.
an increas in the diamet of blood vessel caus by relax of smooth muscl in the vessel walls. vasodil
agonist behavior in animals, an often ritual contest that determin which competitor gain access to a resource, such as food or mates.
in animals, an often ritual contest that determin which competitor gain access to a resource, such as food or mates. agonist behavior
altruism selflessness; behavior that reduc an individu fit while increas the fit of anoth individual.
selflessness; behavior that reduc an individu fit while increas the fit of anoth individual. altruism
associ learn the acquir abil to associ one environment featur (such as a color) with anoth (such as danger).
the acquir abil to associ one environment featur (such as a color) with anoth (such as danger). associ learn
behavior (in animals) individually, an action carri out by muscl or gland under control of the nervous system in respons to a stimulus; collectively, the sum of an anim respons to extern and intern stimuli.
(in animals) individually, an action carri out by muscl or gland under control of the nervous system in respons to a stimulus; collectively, the sum of an anim respons to extern and intern stimuli. behavior
behavior ecolog the studi of the evolut of and ecolog basi for anim behavior.
the studi of the evolut of and ecolog basi for anim behavior. behavior ecolog
classic condit a type of associ learn in which an arbitrari stimulus becom associ with a particular outcome.
a type of associ learn in which an arbitrari stimulus becom associ with a particular outcome. classic condit
coeffici of related the fraction of gene that, on average, are share by two individuals.
the fraction of gene that, on average, are share by two individuals. coeffici of related
cognit the process of know that may includ awareness, reasoning, recollection, and judgment.
the process of know that may includ awareness, reasoning, recollection, and judgment. cognit
cognit map a neural represent of the abstract spatial relationship between object in an anim surroundings.
a neural represent of the abstract spatial relationship between object in an anim surroundings. cognit map
communic in anim behavior, a process involv transmiss of, recept of, and respons to signals. the term is also use in connect with other organisms, as well as individu cell of multicellular organisms.
in anim behavior, a process involv transmiss of, recept of, and respons to signals. the term is also use in connect with other organisms, as well as individu cell of multicellular organisms. communic
cross-fost studi a behavior studi in which the young of one speci are place in the care of adult from anoth species.
a behavior studi in which the young of one speci are place in the care of adult from anoth species. cross-fost studi
cultur a system of in transfer through social learn or teach that influenc the behavior of individu in a population.
a system of in transfer through social learn or teach that influenc the behavior of individu in a population. cultur
ecolog the studi of how organ interact with each other and their environment.
the studi of how organ interact with each other and their environment. ecolog
etholog the scientif studi of how anim behave, particular in their natur environments.
the scientif studi of how anim behave, particular in their natur environments. etholog
fix action pattern in anim behavior, a sequenc of unlearn act that is essenti unchang and, onc initiated, usual carri to completion.
in anim behavior, a sequenc of unlearn act that is essenti unchang and, onc initiated, usual carri to completion. fix action pattern
forag the seek and obtain of food.
the seek and obtain of food. forag
game theori an approach to evalu altern strategi in situat where the outcom of a particular strategi depend on the strategi use by other individuals.
an approach to evalu altern strategi in situat where the outcom of a particular strategi depend on the strategi use by other individuals. game theori
habitu a simpl type of learn that involv a loss of respons to stimuli that convey littl or no new ination.
a simpl type of learn that involv a loss of respons to stimuli that convey littl or no new ination. habitu
hamilton rule the principl that for natur select to favor an altruist act, the benefit to the recipient, devalu by the coeffici of relatedness, must exceed the cost to the altruist.
the principl that for natur select to favor an altruist act, the benefit to the recipient, devalu by the coeffici of relatedness, must exceed the cost to the altruist. hamilton rule
imprint in anim behavior, the at at a specif stage in life of a long-last behavior respons to a specif individu or object. (see also genom [this].)
in anim behavior, the at at a specif stage in life of a long-last behavior respons to a specif individu or object. (see also genom [this].) imprint
inclus fit the total effect an individu has on prolifer it gene by produc it own offspr and by provid aid that enabl other close relat to increas the product of their offspring.
the total effect an individu has on prolifer it gene by produc it own offspr and by provid aid that enabl other close relat to increas the product of their offspring. inclus fit
innat behavior anim behavior that is development fix and under strong genet control. [this] is exhibit in virtual the same  by all individu in a popul despit intern and extern environment differ dure develop and throughout their lifetimes.
anim behavior that is development fix and under strong genet control. [this] is exhibit in virtual the same  by all individu in a popul despit intern and extern environment differ dure develop and throughout their lifetimes. innat behavior
kin select natur select that favor altruist behavior by enhanc the reproduct success of relatives.
natur select that favor altruist behavior by enhanc the reproduct success of relatives. kin select
kinesi a chang in  or turn rate in respons to a stimulus.
a chang in  or turn rate in respons to a stimulus. kinesi
landmark a locat indicator—a point of refer for orient dure navigation.
a locat indicator—a point of refer for orient dure navigation. landmark
learn the modif of behavior base on specif experiences.
the modif of behavior base on specif experiences. learn
mate choic copi behavior in which individu in a popul copi the mate choic of others, appar as a  of social learning.
behavior in which individu in a popul copi the mate choic of others, appar as a  of social learning. mate choic copi
migrat a regular, long-dist chang in location.
a regular, long-dist chang in location. migrat
model organ a particular speci chosen for research into broad biolog principl becaus it is repres of a larger group and usual easi to grow in a lab.
a particular speci chosen for research into broad biolog principl becaus it is repres of a larger group and usual easi to grow in a lab. model organ
monogam refer to a type of relationship in which one male mate with just one female.
refer to a type of relationship in which one male mate with just one female. monogam
oper condit a type of associ learn in which an anim learn to associ one of it own behavior with a reward or punish and then tend to repeat or avoid that behavior; also call trial-and-error learning.
a type of associ learn in which an anim learn to associ one of it own behavior with a reward or punish and then tend to repeat or avoid that behavior; also call trial-and-error learning. oper condit
polyandri a polygam mate system involv one femal and mani males.
a polygam mate system involv one femal and mani males. polyandri
polygyni a polygam mate system involv one male and mani females.
a polygam mate system involv one male and mani females. polygyni
problem solv the cognit  of devis a method to proceed from one state to anoth in the face of real or appar obstacles.
the cognit  of devis a method to proceed from one state to anoth in the face of real or appar obstacles. problem solv
promiscu refer to a type of relationship in which mate occur with no strong pair-bond or last relationships.
refer to a type of relationship in which mate occur with no strong pair-bond or last relationships. promiscu
proxim causat the mechanist explan of “how” a behavior (or other aspect of an organ biology) occur or is modified; that is, how a stimulus elicit a behavior, what physiolog mechan mediat the response, and how experi influenc the response.
the mechanist explan of “how” a behavior (or other aspect of an organ biology) occur or is modified; that is, how a stimulus elicit a behavior, what physiolog mechan mediat the response, and how experi influenc the response. proxim causat
reciproc altruism altruist behavior between unrel individuals, wherebi the altruist individu benefit in the futur when the beneficiari reciprocates.
altruist behavior between unrel individuals, wherebi the altruist individu benefit in the futur when the beneficiari reciprocates. reciproc altruism
sensit period a limit phase in an individu anim develop when learn of particular behavior can take place; also call a critic period.
a limit phase in an individu anim develop when learn of particular behavior can take place; also call a critic period. sensit period
sign stimulus an extern sensori cue that trigger a fix action pattern by an animal.
an extern sensori cue that trigger a fix action pattern by an animal. sign stimulus
signal in anim behavior, transmiss of a stimulus from one anim to another. the term is also use in the context of communic in other kind of organ and in cell-to-cel communic in all multicellular organisms.
in anim behavior, transmiss of a stimulus from one anim to another. the term is also use in the context of communic in other kind of organ and in cell-to-cel communic in all multicellular organisms. signal
social learn modif of behavior through the observ of other individuals.
modif of behavior through the observ of other individuals. social learn
sociobiolog the studi of social behavior base on evolutionari theory.
the studi of social behavior base on evolutionari theory. sociobiolog
spatial learn the establish of a memori that reflect the environ spatial structure.
the establish of a memori that reflect the environ spatial structure. spatial learn
taxi an orient movement toward or away from a stimulus.
an orient movement toward or away from a stimulus. taxi
ultim causat the evolutionari explan of “why” a behavior (or other aspect of an organ biology) occurs, that is, the benefit to surviv and reproduct or the evolutionari signific of the behavior act.
the evolutionari explan of “why” a behavior (or other aspect of an organ biology) occurs, that is, the benefit to surviv and reproduct or the evolutionari signific of the behavior act. ultim causat
polygam refer to a type of relationship in which an individu of one sex mate with sever of the other.
refer to a type of relationship in which an individu of one sex mate with sever of the other. polygam
abyss zone the part of the ocean benthic zone between 2,000 and 6,000 m deep.
the part of the ocean benthic zone between 2,000 and 6,000 m deep. abyss zone
aphot zone the part of an ocean or lake beneath the photic zone, where light doe not penetr suffici for photosynthesi to occur.
the part of an ocean or lake beneath the photic zone, where light doe not penetr suffici for photosynthesi to occur. aphot zone
benthic zone the bottom surfac of an aquat environment.
the bottom surfac of an aquat environment. benthic zone
bentho the communiti of organ live in the benthic zone of an aquat biome.
the communiti of organ live in the benthic zone of an aquat biome. bentho
biom ani of the world major ecosystems, often classifi accord to the predomin veget and character by adapt of organ to that particular environment.
ani of the world major ecosystems, often classifi accord to the predomin veget and character by adapt of organ to that particular environment. biom
biospher the entir portion of earth inhabit by life; the sum of all the planet ecosystems.
the entir portion of earth inhabit by life; the sum of all the planet ecosystems. biospher
canopi the uppermost layer of veget in a terrestri biome.
the uppermost layer of veget in a terrestri biome. canopi
chaparr a scrubland biom of dense, spini evergreen shrub found at midlatitud along coast where cold ocean current circul offshore; character by mild, raini winter and long, hot, dri summers.
a scrubland biom of dense, spini evergreen shrub found at midlatitud along coast where cold ocean current circul offshore; character by mild, raini winter and long, hot, dri summers. chaparr
climat the long-term prevail weather condit at a locality.
the long-term prevail weather condit at a locality. climat
climograph a plot of the temperatur and precipit in a particular region.
a plot of the temperatur and precipit in a particular region. climograph
communiti all the organ that inhabit a particular area; an assemblag of popul of differ speci live close enough togeth for potenti interaction.
all the organ that inhabit a particular area; an assemblag of popul of differ speci live close enough togeth for potenti interaction. communiti
communiti ecolog the studi of how interact between speci affect communiti structur and organization.
the studi of how interact between speci affect communiti structur and organization. communiti ecolog
coral reef typic a warm-water, tropic ecosystem domin by the hard skelet structur secret primarili by the resid cnidarians. some reef also exist in cold, deep waters.
typic a warm-water, tropic ecosystem domin by the hard skelet structur secret primarili by the resid cnidarians. some reef also exist in cold, deep waters. coral reef
deep-sea hydrotherm vent a dark, hot, oxygen-defici environ associ with volcan  on or near the seafloor. the produc in a vent communiti are chemoautotroph prokaryotes.
a dark, hot, oxygen-defici environ associ with volcan  on or near the seafloor. the produc in a vent communiti are chemoautotroph prokaryotes. deep-sea hydrotherm vent
desert a terrestri biom character by veri low precipitation.
a terrestri biom character by veri low precipitation. desert
detritus dead organ matter.
dead organ matter. detritus
dispers the movement of individu (or gametes) away from their parent location. this movement sometim expand the geograph rang of a popul or species.
the movement of individu (or gametes) away from their parent location. this movement sometim expand the geograph rang of a popul or species. dispers
ecosystem all the organ in a given area as well as the abiot factor with which they interact; one or more communiti and the physic environ around them.
all the organ in a given area as well as the abiot factor with which they interact; one or more communiti and the physic environ around them. ecosystem
ecosystem ecolog the studi of energi flow and the cycl of chemic among the various biotic and abiot compon in an ecosystem.
the studi of energi flow and the cycl of chemic among the various biotic and abiot compon in an ecosystem. ecosystem ecolog
ecoton the transit from one type of habitat or ecosystem to another, such as the transit from a forest to a grassland.
the transit from one type of habitat or ecosystem to another, such as the transit from a forest to a grassland. ecoton
estuari the area where a freshwat stream or river merg with the ocean.
the area where a freshwat stream or river merg with the ocean. estuari
eutroph lake a lake that has a high rate of biolog product support by a high rate of nutrient cycling.
a lake that has a high rate of biolog product support by a high rate of nutrient cycling. eutroph lake
global ecolog the studi of the function and distribut of organ across the biospher and how the region exchang of energi and materi affect them.
the studi of the function and distribut of organ across the biospher and how the region exchang of energi and materi affect them. global ecolog
intertid zone the shallow zone of the ocean adjac to land and between the high- and low-tid lines.
the shallow zone of the ocean adjac to land and between the high- and low-tid lines. intertid zone
landscap ecolog the studi of how the spatial arrang of habitat type affect the distribut and abund of organ and ecosystem processes.
the studi of how the spatial arrang of habitat type affect the distribut and abund of organ and ecosystem processes. landscap ecolog
limnet zone in a lake, the well-lit, open surfac water farther from shore.
in a lake, the well-lit, open surfac water farther from shore. limnet zone
littor zone in a lake, the shallow, well-lit water close to shore.
in a lake, the shallow, well-lit water close to shore. littor zone
macroclim large-scal pattern in climate; the climat of an entir region.
large-scal pattern in climate; the climat of an entir region. macroclim
marin benthic zone the ocean floor.
the ocean floor. marin benthic zone
microclim veri fine scale pattern of climate, such as the specif climat condit underneath a log.
veri fine scale pattern of climate, such as the specif climat condit underneath a log. microclim
nerit zone the shallow region of the ocean over the continent shelf.
the shallow region of the ocean over the continent shelf. nerit zone
northern conifer forest a terrestri biom character by long, cold winter and domin by cone-bear trees.
a terrestri biom character by long, cold winter and domin by cone-bear trees. northern conifer forest
ocean pelag zone most of the ocean water far from shore, constant mix by ocean currents.
most of the ocean water far from shore, constant mix by ocean currents. ocean pelag zone
oligotroph lake a nutrient-poor, clear lake with few phytoplankton.
a nutrient-poor, clear lake with few phytoplankton. oligotroph lake
organism ecolog the branch of ecolog concern with the morphological, physiological, and behavior way in which individu organ meet the challeng pose by their biotic and abiot environments.
the branch of ecolog concern with the morphological, physiological, and behavior way in which individu organ meet the challeng pose by their biotic and abiot environments. organism ecolog
permafrost a perman frozen soil layer.
a perman frozen soil layer. permafrost
photic zone the narrow top layer of an ocean or lake, where light penetr suffici for photosynthesi to occur.
the narrow top layer of an ocean or lake, where light penetr suffici for photosynthesi to occur. photic zone
savanna a tropic grassland biom with scatter individu tree and larg herbivor and maintain by occasion fire and drought.
a tropic grassland biom with scatter individu tree and larg herbivor and maintain by occasion fire and drought. savanna
temper broadleaf forest a biom locat throughout midlatitud region where there is suffici moistur to support the growth of large, broadleaf decidu trees.
a biom locat throughout midlatitud region where there is suffici moistur to support the growth of large, broadleaf decidu trees. temper broadleaf forest
temper grassland a terrestri biom domin by grass and forbs.
a terrestri biom domin by grass and forbs. temper grassland
thermoclin a narrow stratum of rapid temperatur chang in the ocean and in mani temperate-zon lakes.
a narrow stratum of rapid temperatur chang in the ocean and in mani temperate-zon lakes. thermoclin
tropic rain forest a terrestri biom character by high level of precipit and high temperatur year-round.
a terrestri biom character by high level of precipit and high temperatur year-round. tropic rain forest
tropic latitud between 23.5° north and south.
latitud between 23.5° north and south. tropic
tundra a terrestri biom at the extrem limit of plant growth. at the northernmost limits, it is call arctic [this], and at high altitudes, where plant  are limit to low shrubbi or matlik vegetation, it is call alpin [this].
a terrestri biom at the extrem limit of plant growth. at the northernmost limits, it is call arctic [this], and at high altitudes, where plant  are limit to low shrubbi or matlik vegetation, it is call alpin [this]. tundra
turnov the mix of water as a  of chang water-temperatur profil in a lake.
the mix of water as a  of chang water-temperatur profil in a lake. turnov
wetland a habitat that is inund by water at least some of the time and that support plant adapt to water-satur soil.
a habitat that is inund by water at least some of the time and that support plant adapt to water-satur soil. wetland
age structur the relat number of individu of each age in a population.
the relat number of individu of each age in a population. age structur
big-bang reproduct reproduct in which an organ produc all of it offspr in a singl event; also known as semelparity.
reproduct in which an organ produc all of it offspr in a singl event; also known as semelparity. big-bang reproduct
carri capac the maximum popul size that can be support by the avail resources, symbol as k.
the maximum popul size that can be support by the avail resources, symbol as k. carri capac
cohort a group of individu of the same age in a population.
a group of individu of the same age in a population. cohort
densiti the number of individu per unit area or volume.
the number of individu per unit area or volume. densiti
densiti depend refer to ani characterist that vari accord to an increas in popul density.
refer to ani characterist that vari accord to an increas in popul density. densiti depend
densiti independ refer to ani characterist that is not affect by popul density.
refer to ani characterist that is not affect by popul density. densiti independ
dispers the pattern of space among individu within the boundari of the geograph population.
the pattern of space among individu within the boundari of the geograph population. dispers
ecolog footprint the aggreg land and water area requir by a person, city, or nation to produc all of the resourc it consum and to absorb all of the wast it generates.
the aggreg land and water area requir by a person, city, or nation to produc all of the resourc it consum and to absorb all of the wast it generates. ecolog footprint
emigr the movement of individu out of a population.
the movement of individu out of a population. emigr
exponenti popul growth growth of a popul in an ideal, unlimit environment, repres by a j-shape curv when popul size is plot over time.
growth of a popul in an ideal, unlimit environment, repres by a j-shape curv when popul size is plot over time. exponenti popul growth
immigr the influx of new individu into a popul from other areas.
the influx of new individu into a popul from other areas. immigr
iteropar reproduct in which adult produc offspr over mani years; also known as repeat reproduction.
reproduct in which adult produc offspr over mani years; also known as repeat reproduction. iteropar
k-select select for life histori trait that are sensit to popul density; also call density-depend selection.
select for life histori trait that are sensit to popul density; also call density-depend selection. k-select
life histori the trait that affect an organ schedul of reproduct and survival.
the trait that affect an organ schedul of reproduct and survival. life histori
life tabl a tabl of data summar mortal in a population.
a tabl of data summar mortal in a population. life tabl
logist popul growth popul growth that level off as popul size approach carri capacity.
popul growth that level off as popul size approach carri capacity. logist popul growth
mark-recaptur method a sampl techniqu use to estim the size of anim populations.
a sampl techniqu use to estim the size of anim populations. mark-recaptur method
metapopul a group of spatial separ popul of one speci that interact through immigr and emigration.
a group of spatial separ popul of one speci that interact through immigr and emigration. metapopul
popul dynam the studi of how complex interact between biotic and abiot factor influenc variat in popul size.
the studi of how complex interact between biotic and abiot factor influenc variat in popul size. popul dynam
popul ecolog the studi of popul in relat to their environment, includ environment influenc on popul densiti and distribution, age structure, and variat in popul size.
the studi of popul in relat to their environment, includ environment influenc on popul densiti and distribution, age structure, and variat in popul size. popul ecolog
repeat reproduct reproduct in which adult produc offspr over mani years; also known as iteroparity.
reproduct in which adult produc offspr over mani years; also known as iteroparity. repeat reproduct
reproduct tabl an age-specif summari of the reproduct rate in a population.
an age-specif summari of the reproduct rate in a population. reproduct tabl
r-select select for life histori trait that maxim reproduct success in uncrowd environments; also call density-independ selection.
select for life histori trait that maxim reproduct success in uncrowd environments; also call density-independ selection. r-select
semelpar reproduct in which an organ produc all of it offspr in a singl event; also known as big-bang reproduction.
reproduct in which an organ produc all of it offspr in a singl event; also known as big-bang reproduction. semelpar
survivorship curv a plot of the number of member of a cohort that are still aliv at each age; one way to repres age-specif mortality.
a plot of the number of member of a cohort that are still aliv at each age; one way to repres age-specif mortality. survivorship curv
territori a behavior in which an anim defend a bound physic space against encroach by other individuals, usual of it own species.
a behavior in which an anim defend a bound physic space against encroach by other individuals, usual of it own species. territori
zero popul growth (zpg) a period of stabil in popul size, when the per capita birth rate and death rate are equal.
a period of stabil in popul size, when the per capita birth rate and death rate are equal. zero popul growth (zpg)
aposemat color the bright color of anim with effect physic or chemic defens that act as a warn to predators.
the bright color of anim with effect physic or chemic defens that act as a warn to predators. aposemat color
batesian mimicri a type of mimicri in which a harmless speci look like a speci that is poison or otherwis harm to predators.
a type of mimicri in which a harmless speci look like a speci that is poison or otherwis harm to predators. batesian mimicri
biomanipul an approach that appli the top-down model of communiti organ to alter ecosystem characteristics. for example, ecologist can prevent algal bloom and eutroph by alter the densiti of higher-level consum in lake instead of by use chemic treatments.
an approach that appli the top-down model of communiti organ to alter ecosystem characteristics. for example, ecologist can prevent algal bloom and eutroph by alter the densiti of higher-level consum in lake instead of by use chemic treatments. biomanipul
biomass the total mass of organ matter compris a group of organ in a particular habitat.
the total mass of organ matter compris a group of organ in a particular habitat. biomass
bottom-up model a model of communiti organ in which miner nutrient influenc communiti organ by control plant or phytoplankton numbers, which in turn control herbivor numbers, which in turn control predat numbers.
a model of communiti organ in which miner nutrient influenc communiti organ by control plant or phytoplankton numbers, which in turn control herbivor numbers, which in turn control predat numbers. bottom-up model
charact displac the tendenc for characterist to be more diverg in sympatr popul of two speci than in allopatr popul of the same two species.
the tendenc for characterist to be more diverg in sympatr popul of two speci than in allopatr popul of the same two species. charact displac
commens a symbiot relationship in which one organ benefit but the other is neither help nor harmed.
a symbiot relationship in which one organ benefit but the other is neither help nor harmed. commens
competit exclus the concept that when popul of two similar speci compet for the same limit resources, one popul will use the resourc more effici and have a reproduct advantag that will eventu lead to the elimin of the other population.
the concept that when popul of two similar speci compet for the same limit resources, one popul will use the resourc more effici and have a reproduct advantag that will eventu lead to the elimin of the other population. competit exclus
cryptic color camouflag that make a potenti prey difficult to spot against it background.
camouflag that make a potenti prey difficult to spot against it background. cryptic color
disturb a natur or human-caus event that chang a biolog communiti and usual remov organ from it. [these], such as fire and storms, play a pivot role in structur mani communities.
a natur or human-caus event that chang a biolog communiti and usual remov organ from it. [these], such as fire and storms, play a pivot role in structur mani communities. disturb
domin speci a speci with substanti higher abund or biomass than other speci in a community. [these] exert a power control over the occurr and distribut of other species.
a speci with substanti higher abund or biomass than other speci in a community. [these] exert a power control over the occurr and distribut of other species. domin speci
dynam stabil hypothesi the idea that long food chain are less stabl than short chains.
the idea that long food chain are less stabl than short chains. dynam stabil hypothesi
ecolog nich the sum of a speci use of the biotic and abiot resourc in it environment.
the sum of a speci use of the biotic and abiot resourc in it environment. ecolog nich
ecolog success transit in the speci composit of a communiti follow a disturbance; the establish of a communiti in an area virtual barren of life.
transit in the speci composit of a communiti follow a disturbance; the establish of a communiti in an area virtual barren of life. ecolog success
ectoparasit a parasit that feed on the extern surfac of a host.
a parasit that feed on the extern surfac of a host. ectoparasit
endoparasit a parasit that live within a host.
a parasit that live within a host. endoparasit
energet hypothesi the concept that the length of a food chain is limit by the ineffici of energi transfer along the chain.
the concept that the length of a food chain is limit by the ineffici of energi transfer along the chain. energet hypothesi
evapotranspir the total evapor of water from an ecosystem, includ evapor from soil and the outsid of plants, as well as the transpir of water from within plant through stomata.
the total evapor of water from an ecosystem, includ evapor from soil and the outsid of plants, as well as the transpir of water from within plant through stomata. evapotranspir
facilit a speci that has a posit effect on the surviv and reproduct of other speci in a communiti and that influenc communiti structure.
a speci that has a posit effect on the surviv and reproduct of other speci in a communiti and that influenc communiti structure. facilit
food chain the pathway along which food energi is transfer from trophic level to trophic level, begin with producers.
the pathway along which food energi is transfer from trophic level to trophic level, begin with producers. food chain
food web the interconnect feed relationship in an ecosystem.
the interconnect feed relationship in an ecosystem. food web
herbivori an interact in which an organ eat part of a plant or alga.
an interact in which an organ eat part of a plant or alga. herbivori
host the larger particip in a symbiot relationship, serv as home and food sourc for the smaller symbiont.
the larger particip in a symbiot relationship, serv as home and food sourc for the smaller symbiont. host
intermedi disturb hypothesi the concept that moder level of disturb can foster greater speci divers than low or high level of disturbance.
the concept that moder level of disturb can foster greater speci divers than low or high level of disturbance. intermedi disturb hypothesi
interspecif competit competit for resourc between individu of two or more speci when resourc are in short supply.
competit for resourc between individu of two or more speci when resourc are in short supply. interspecif competit
interspecif interact a relationship between individu of two or more speci in a community.
a relationship between individu of two or more speci in a community. interspecif interact
invas speci a species, often introduc by humans, that take hold outsid it nativ range.
a species, often introduc by humans, that take hold outsid it nativ range. invas speci
keyston speci a speci that is not necessarili abund in a communiti yet exert strong control on communiti structur by the natur of it ecolog role or niche.
a speci that is not necessarili abund in a communiti yet exert strong control on communiti structur by the natur of it ecolog role or niche. keyston speci
müllerian mimicri a mutual mimicri by two unpalat species.
a mutual mimicri by two unpalat species. müllerian mimicri
nonequilibrium model a model that maintain that communiti chang constant after be buffet by disturbances.
a model that maintain that communiti chang constant after be buffet by disturbances. nonequilibrium model
parasit an organ that feed on the cell contents, tissues, or bodi fluid of anoth speci (the host) while in or on the host organism. [these] harm but usual do not kill their host.
an organ that feed on the cell contents, tissues, or bodi fluid of anoth speci (the host) while in or on the host organism. [these] harm but usual do not kill their host. parasit
parasit a symbiot relationship in which one organism, the parasite, benefit at the expens of another, the host, by live either within or on the host.
a symbiot relationship in which one organism, the parasite, benefit at the expens of another, the host, by live either within or on the host. parasit
predat an interact between speci in which one species, the predator, eat the other, the prey.
an interact between speci in which one species, the predator, eat the other, the prey. predat
primari success a type of ecolog success that occur in an area where there were origin no organ present and where soil has not yet ed.
a type of ecolog success that occur in an area where there were origin no organ present and where soil has not yet ed. primari success
relat abund the proport abund of differ speci in a community.
the proport abund of differ speci in a community. relat abund
resourc partit the divis of environment resourc by coexist speci such that the nich of each speci differ by one or more signific factor from the nich of all coexist species.
the divis of environment resourc by coexist speci such that the nich of each speci differ by one or more signific factor from the nich of all coexist species. resourc partit
secondari success a type of success that occur where an exist communiti has been clear by some disturb that leav the soil or substrat intact.
a type of success that occur where an exist communiti has been clear by some disturb that leav the soil or substrat intact. secondari success
shannon divers an index of communiti divers symbol by h and repres by the equat h = - [(pa ln pa) + (pb ln pb) + (pc ln pc) + . . .], where a, b, c . . . are the speci in the community, p is the relat abund of each species, and ln is the natur logarithm.
an index of communiti divers symbol by h and repres by the equat h = - [(pa ln pa) + (pb ln pb) + (pc ln pc) + . . .], where a, b, c . . . are the speci in the community, p is the relat abund of each species, and ln is the natur logarithm. shannon divers
speci divers the number and relat abund of speci in a biolog community.
the number and relat abund of speci in a biolog community. speci divers
speci rich the number of speci in a biolog community.
the number of speci in a biolog community. speci rich
species-area curv the biodivers pattern, first note by alexand von humboldt, that show that the larger the geograph area of a communiti is, the more speci it has.
the biodivers pattern, first note by alexand von humboldt, that show that the larger the geograph area of a communiti is, the more speci it has. species-area curv
symbiosi an ecolog relationship between organ of two differ speci that live togeth in direct and intim contact.
an ecolog relationship between organ of two differ speci that live togeth in direct and intim contact. symbiosi
top-down model a model of communiti organ in which predat influenc communiti organ by control herbivor numbers, which in turn control plant or phytoplankton numbers, which in turn control nutrient levels; also call the trophic cascad model.
a model of communiti organ in which predat influenc communiti organ by control herbivor numbers, which in turn control plant or phytoplankton numbers, which in turn control nutrient levels; also call the trophic cascad model. top-down model
trophic structur the differ feed relationship in an ecosystem, which determin the rout of energi flow and the pattern of chemic cycling.
the differ feed relationship in an ecosystem, which determin the rout of energi flow and the pattern of chemic cycling. trophic structur
vector an organ that transmit pathogen from one host to another.
an organ that transmit pathogen from one host to another. vector
zoonot pathogen a disease-caus agent that is transmit to human from other animals.
a disease-caus agent that is transmit to human from other animals. zoonot pathogen
actual evapotranspir the amount of water transpir by plant and evapor from a landscap over a given period of time, usual measur in millimet and estim for a year.
the amount of water transpir by plant and evapor from a landscap over a given period of time, usual measur in millimet and estim for a year. actual evapotranspir
biogeochem cycl ani of the various chemic cycles, which involv both biotic and abiot compon of ecosystems.
ani of the various chemic cycles, which involv both biotic and abiot compon of ecosystems. biogeochem cycl
biolog magnif a process in which retain substanc becom more concentr at each higher trophic level in a food chain.
a process in which retain substanc becom more concentr at each higher trophic level in a food chain. biolog magnif
critic load the amount of ad nutrient, usual nitrogen or phosphorus, that can be absorb by plant without damag ecosystem integrity.
the amount of ad nutrient, usual nitrogen or phosphorus, that can be absorb by plant without damag ecosystem integrity. critic load
decompos an organ that absorb nutrient from nonliv organ materi such as corpses, fallen plant material, and the wast of live organ and convert them to inorgan s; a detritivore.
an organ that absorb nutrient from nonliv organ materi such as corpses, fallen plant material, and the wast of live organ and convert them to inorgan s; a detritivore. decompos
detritivor a consum that deriv it energi and nutrient from nonliv organ materi such as corpses, fallen plant material, and the wast of live organisms; a decomposer.
a consum that deriv it energi and nutrient from nonliv organ materi such as corpses, fallen plant material, and the wast of live organisms; a decomposer. detritivor
eutroph a process by which nutrients, particular phosphorus and nitrogen, becom high concentr in a bodi of water, lead to increas growth of organ such as alga or cyanobacteria.
a process by which nutrients, particular phosphorus and nitrogen, becom high concentr in a bodi of water, lead to increas growth of organ such as alga or cyanobacteria. eutroph
green world hypothesi the conjectur that terrestri herbivor consum relat littl plant biomass becaus they are held in check by a varieti of factors, includ predators, parasites, and disease.
the conjectur that terrestri herbivor consum relat littl plant biomass becaus they are held in check by a varieti of factors, includ predators, parasites, and disease. green world hypothesi
greenhous effect the warm of earth due to the atmospher accumul of carbon dioxid and certain other gases, which absorb reflect infrar radiat and reradi some of it back toward earth.
the warm of earth due to the atmospher accumul of carbon dioxid and certain other gases, which absorb reflect infrar radiat and reradi some of it back toward earth. greenhous effect
gross primari product (gpp) the total primari product of an ecosystem.
the total primari product of an ecosystem. gross primari product (gpp)
law of conserv of mass a physic law state that matter can chang  but cannot be creat or destroyed. in a close system, the mass of the system is constant.
a physic law state that matter can chang  but cannot be creat or destroyed. in a close system, the mass of the system is constant. law of conserv of mass
limit nutrient an element that must be ad for product to increas in a particular area.
an element that must be ad for product to increas in a particular area. limit nutrient
net primari product (npp) the gross primari product of an ecosystem minus the energi use by the produc for respiration.
the gross primari product of an ecosystem minus the energi use by the produc for respiration. net primari product (npp)
primari consum an herbivore; an organ that eat plant or other autotrophs.
an herbivore; an organ that eat plant or other autotrophs. primari consum
primari produc an autotroph, usual a photosynthet organism. collectively, autotroph make up the trophic level of an ecosystem that ultim support all other levels.
an autotroph, usual a photosynthet organism. collectively, autotroph make up the trophic level of an ecosystem that ultim support all other levels. primari produc
primari product the amount of light energi convert to chemic energi (organ compounds) by autotroph in an ecosystem dure a given time period.
the amount of light energi convert to chemic energi (organ compounds) by autotroph in an ecosystem dure a given time period. primari product
product effici the percentag of energi store in food that is not use for respir or elimin as waste.
the percentag of energi store in food that is not use for respir or elimin as waste. product effici
secondari consum a carnivor that eat herbivores.
a carnivor that eat herbivores. secondari consum
secondari product the amount of chemic energi in consum food that is convert to their own new biomass dure a given time period.
the amount of chemic energi in consum food that is convert to their own new biomass dure a given time period. secondari product
tertiari consum a carnivor that eat other carnivores.
a carnivor that eat other carnivores. tertiari consum
trophic effici the percentag of product transfer from one trophic level to the next.
the percentag of product transfer from one trophic level to the next. trophic effici
turnov time the time requir to replac the stand crop of a popul or group of popul (for example, of phytoplankton), calcul as the ratio of stand crop to production.
the time requir to replac the stand crop of a popul or group of popul (for example, of phytoplankton), calcul as the ratio of stand crop to production. turnov time
abc model a model of flower at identifi three class of organ ident gene that direct at of the four type of floral organs.
a model of flower at identifi three class of organ ident gene that direct at of the four type of floral organs. abc model
annual a flower plant that complet it entir life cycl in a singl year or grow season.
a flower plant that complet it entir life cycl in a singl year or grow season. annual
apic bud a bud at the tip of a plant stem; also call a termin bud.
a bud at the tip of a plant stem; also call a termin bud. apic bud
apic domin concentr of growth at the tip of a plant shoot, where a termin bud partial inhibit axillari bud growth.
concentr of growth at the tip of a plant shoot, where a termin bud partial inhibit axillari bud growth. apic domin
apic meristem embryon plant tissu in the tip of root and the bud of shoots. the divid cell of [this] enabl the plant to grow in length.
embryon plant tissu in the tip of root and the bud of shoots. the divid cell of [this] enabl the plant to grow in length. apic meristem
axillari bud a structur that has the potenti to  a later shoot, or branch. the bud appear in the angl  between a leaf and a stem.
a structur that has the potenti to  a later shoot, or branch. the bud appear in the angl  between a leaf and a stem. axillari bud
bark all tissu extern to the vascular cambium, consist main of the secondari phloem and layer of periderm.
all tissu extern to the vascular cambium, consist main of the secondari phloem and layer of periderm. bark
biennial a flower plant that requir two year to complet it life cycle.
a flower plant that requir two year to complet it life cycle. biennial
blade (1) a leaflik structur of a seawe that provid most of the surfac area for photosynthesis. (2) the flatten portion of a typic leaf.
(1) a leaflik structur of a seawe that provid most of the surfac area for photosynthesis. (2) the flatten portion of a typic leaf. blade
collenchyma cell a flexibl plant cell type that occur in strand or cylind that support young part of the plant without restrain growth.
a flexibl plant cell type that occur in strand or cylind that support young part of the plant without restrain growth. collenchyma cell
companion cell a type of plant cell that is connect to a sieve-tub element by mani plasmodesmata and whose nucleus and ribosom may serv one or more adjac sieve-tub elements.
a type of plant cell that is connect to a sieve-tub element by mani plasmodesmata and whose nucleus and ribosom may serv one or more adjac sieve-tub elements. companion cell
cork cambium a cylind of meristemat tissu in woodi plant that replac the epidermi with thicker, tougher cork cells.
a cylind of meristemat tissu in woodi plant that replac the epidermi with thicker, tougher cork cells. cork cambium
cortex (1) the outer region of cytoplasm in a eukaryot cell, lie just under the plasma membrane, that has a more gel-lik consist than the inner regions, due to the presenc of multipl microfilaments. (2) in plants, ground tissu that is between the vascular tissu and dermal tissu in a root or eudicot stem.
(1) the outer region of cytoplasm in a eukaryot cell, lie just under the plasma membrane, that has a more gel-lik consist than the inner regions, due to the presenc of multipl microfilaments. (2) in plants, ground tissu that is between the vascular tissu and dermal tissu in a root or eudicot stem. cortex
cuticl (1) a waxi cover on the surfac of stem and leav that act as an adapt that prevent desicc in terrestri plants. (2) the exoskeleton of an arthropod, consist of layer of protein and chitin that are various modifi for differ functions. (3) a tough coat that cover the bodi of a nematode.
(1) a waxi cover on the surfac of stem and leav that act as an adapt that prevent desicc in terrestri plants. (2) the exoskeleton of an arthropod, consist of layer of protein and chitin that are various modifi for differ functions. (3) a tough coat that cover the bodi of a nematode. cuticl
dermal tissu system the outer protect cover of plants.
the outer protect cover of plants. dermal tissu system
determin growth a type of growth characterist of most anim and some plant organs, in which growth stop after a certain size is reached.
a type of growth characterist of most anim and some plant organs, in which growth stop after a certain size is reached. determin growth
endodermi the innermost layer of the cortex in plant roots; a cylind one cell thick that  the boundari between the cortex and the vascular cylinder.
the innermost layer of the cortex in plant roots; a cylind one cell thick that  the boundari between the cortex and the vascular cylinder. endodermi
fiber a lignifi cell type that reinforc the xylem of angiosperm and function in mechan support; a slender, taper sclerenchyma cell that usual occur in bundles.
a lignifi cell type that reinforc the xylem of angiosperm and function in mechan support; a slender, taper sclerenchyma cell that usual occur in bundles. fiber
ground tissu system plant tissu that are neither vascular nor dermal, fulfil a varieti of functions, such as storage, photosynthesis, and support.
plant tissu that are neither vascular nor dermal, fulfil a varieti of functions, such as storage, photosynthesis, and support. ground tissu system
guard cell the two cell that flank the stomat pore and regul the open and close of the pore.
the two cell that flank the stomat pore and regul the open and close of the pore. guard cell
indetermin growth a type of growth characterist of plants, in which the organ continu to grow as long as it lives.
a type of growth characterist of plants, in which the organ continu to grow as long as it lives. indetermin growth
internod a segment of a plant stem between the point where leav are attached.
a segment of a plant stem between the point where leav are attached. internod
later meristem a meristem that thicken the root and shoot of woodi plants. the vascular cambium and cork cambium are [these].
a meristem that thicken the root and shoot of woodi plants. the vascular cambium and cork cambium are [these]. later meristem
later root a root that aris from the pericycl of an establish root.
a root that aris from the pericycl of an establish root. later root
leaf primordium a finger-lik project along the flank of a shoot apic meristem, from which a leaf arises.
a finger-lik project along the flank of a shoot apic meristem, from which a leaf arises. leaf primordium
lenticel a small rais area in the bark of stem and root that enabl gas exchang between live cell and the outsid air.
a small rais area in the bark of stem and root that enabl gas exchang between live cell and the outsid air. lenticel
meristem plant tissu that remain embryon as long as the plant lives, allow for indetermin growth.
plant tissu that remain embryon as long as the plant lives, allow for indetermin growth. meristem
meristem ident gene a plant gene that promot the switch from veget growth to flowering.
a plant gene that promot the switch from veget growth to flowering. meristem ident gene
morpholog an organ extern .
an organ extern . morpholog
node a point along the stem of a plant at which leav are attached.
a point along the stem of a plant at which leav are attached. node
organ ident gene a plant homeot gene that use posit in to determin which emerg leav develop into which type of floral organs.
a plant homeot gene that use posit in to determin which emerg leav develop into which type of floral organs. organ ident gene
parenchyma cell a relat unspeci plant cell type that carri out most of the metabolism, synthes and store organ products, and develop into a more differenti cell type.
a relat unspeci plant cell type that carri out most of the metabolism, synthes and store organ products, and develop into a more differenti cell type. parenchyma cell
perenni a flower plant that live for mani years.
a flower plant that live for mani years. perenni
pericycl the outermost layer in the vascular cylind from which later root arise.
the outermost layer in the vascular cylind from which later root arise. pericycl
periderm the protect coat that replac the epidermi in woodi plant dure secondari growth,  of the cork and cork cambium.
the protect coat that replac the epidermi in woodi plant dure secondari growth,  of the cork and cork cambium. periderm
petiol the stalk of a leaf, which join the leaf to a node of the stem.
the stalk of a leaf, which join the leaf to a node of the stem. petiol
phase chang a shift from one development phase to another.
a shift from one development phase to another. phase chang
phloem vascular plant tissu consist of live cell arrang into elong tube that transport sugar and other organ nutrient throughout the plant.
vascular plant tissu consist of live cell arrang into elong tube that transport sugar and other organ nutrient throughout the plant. phloem
pith ground tissu that is intern to the vascular tissu in a stem; in mani monocot roots, parenchyma cell that  the central core of the vascular cylinder.
ground tissu that is intern to the vascular tissu in a stem; in mani monocot roots, parenchyma cell that  the central core of the vascular cylinder. pith
polar a lack of symmetry; structur differ in opposit end of an organ or structure, such as the root end and shoot end of a plant.
a lack of symmetry; structur differ in opposit end of an organ or structure, such as the root end and shoot end of a plant. polar
preprophas band microtubul in the cortex (outer cytoplasm) of a cell that are concentr into a ring.
microtubul in the cortex (outer cytoplasm) of a cell that are concentr into a ring. preprophas band
primari growth growth produc by apic meristems, lengthen stem and roots.
growth produc by apic meristems, lengthen stem and roots. primari growth
primari plant bodi the tissu produc by apic meristems, which lengthen stem and roots.
the tissu produc by apic meristems, which lengthen stem and roots. primari plant bodi
root an organ in vascular plant that anchor the plant and enabl it to absorb water and miner from the soil.
an organ in vascular plant that anchor the plant and enabl it to absorb water and miner from the soil. root
root cap a cone of cell at the tip of a plant root that protect the apic meristem.
a cone of cell at the tip of a plant root that protect the apic meristem. root cap
root hair a tini extens of a root epiderm cell, grow just behind the root tip and increas surfac area for absorpt of water and minerals.
a tini extens of a root epiderm cell, grow just behind the root tip and increas surfac area for absorpt of water and minerals. root hair
root system all of a plant roots, which anchor it in the soil, absorb and transport miner and water, and store food.
all of a plant roots, which anchor it in the soil, absorb and transport miner and water, and store food. root system
sclereid a short, irregular sclerenchyma cell in nutshel and seed coats. [these] are scatter throughout the parenchyma of some plants.
a short, irregular sclerenchyma cell in nutshel and seed coats. [these] are scatter throughout the parenchyma of some plants. sclereid
sclerenchyma cell a rigid, support plant cell type usual lack a protoplast and possess thick secondari wall strengthen by lignin at maturity.
a rigid, support plant cell type usual lack a protoplast and possess thick secondari wall strengthen by lignin at maturity. sclerenchyma cell
secondari growth growth produc by later meristems, thicken the root and shoot of woodi plants.
growth produc by later meristems, thicken the root and shoot of woodi plants. secondari growth
secondari plant bodi the tissu produc by the vascular cambium and cork cambium, which thicken the stem and root of woodi plants.
the tissu produc by the vascular cambium and cork cambium, which thicken the stem and root of woodi plants. secondari plant bodi
shoot system the aerial portion of a plant body, consist of stems, leaves, and (in angiosperms) flowers.
the aerial portion of a plant body, consist of stems, leaves, and (in angiosperms) flowers. shoot system
sieve-tub element a live cell that conduct sugar and other organ nutrient in the phloem of angiosperms; also call a sieve-tub member. connect end to end, they  siev tubes.
a live cell that conduct sugar and other organ nutrient in the phloem of angiosperms; also call a sieve-tub member. connect end to end, they  siev tubes. sieve-tub element
stele the vascular tissu of a stem or root.
the vascular tissu of a stem or root. stele
stem a vascular plant organ consist of an altern system of node and internod that support the leav and reproduct structures.
a vascular plant organ consist of an altern system of node and internod that support the leav and reproduct structures. stem
taproot a main vertic root that develop from an embryon root and give rise to later (branch) roots.
a main vertic root that develop from an embryon root and give rise to later (branch) roots. taproot
tissu system one or more tissu organ into a function unit connect the organ of a plant.
one or more tissu organ into a function unit connect the organ of a plant. tissu system
tracheid a long, taper water-conduct cell found in the xylem of near all vascular plants. function [these] are no longer living.
a long, taper water-conduct cell found in the xylem of near all vascular plants. function [these] are no longer living. tracheid
vascular cambium a cylind of meristemat tissu in woodi plant that add layer of secondari vascular tissu call secondari xylem (wood) and secondari phloem.
a cylind of meristemat tissu in woodi plant that add layer of secondari vascular tissu call secondari xylem (wood) and secondari phloem. vascular cambium
vascular tissu system a transport system  by xylem and phloem throughout a vascular plant. xylem transport water and minerals; phloem transport sugars, the product of photosynthesis.
a transport system  by xylem and phloem throughout a vascular plant. xylem transport water and minerals; phloem transport sugars, the product of photosynthesis. vascular tissu system
vein (1) in animals, a vessel that carri blood toward the heart. (2) in plants, a vascular bundl in a leaf.
(1) in animals, a vessel that carri blood toward the heart. (2) in plants, a vascular bundl in a leaf. vein
vessel element a short, wide water-conduct cell found in the xylem of most angiosperm and a few nonflow vascular plants. dead at maturity, [these] are align end to end to  micropip call vessels.
a short, wide water-conduct cell found in the xylem of most angiosperm and a few nonflow vascular plants. dead at maturity, [these] are align end to end to  micropip call vessels. vessel element
vessel a continu water-conduct micropip found in most angiosperm and a few nonflow vascular plants.
a continu water-conduct micropip found in most angiosperm and a few nonflow vascular plants. vessel
xylem vascular plant tissu consist main of tubular dead cell that conduct most of the water and miner upward from the root to the rest of the plant.
vascular plant tissu consist main of tubular dead cell that conduct most of the water and miner upward from the root to the rest of the plant. xylem
ammonit a member of a group of shell cephalopod that were import marin predat for hundr of million of year until their extinct at the end of the cretac period (65.5 mya).
a member of a group of shell cephalopod that were import marin predat for hundr of million of year until their extinct at the end of the cretac period (65.5 mya). ammonit
cambrian explos a relat brief time in geolog histori when large, hard-bodi  of anim with most of the major bodi plan known today appear in the fossil record. this burst of evolutionari chang occur about 535–525 million year ago.
a relat brief time in geolog histori when large, hard-bodi  of anim with most of the major bodi plan known today appear in the fossil record. this burst of evolutionari chang occur about 535–525 million year ago. cambrian explos
endosymbiosi a process in which a unicellular organ (the “host”) engulf anoth cell, which live within the host cell and ultim becom an organell in the host cell; also refer to the hypothesi that mitochondria and plastid were er small prokaryot that began live within larger cells.
a process in which a unicellular organ (the “host”) engulf anoth cell, which live within the host cell and ultim becom an organell in the host cell; also refer to the hypothesi that mitochondria and plastid were er small prokaryot that began live within larger cells. endosymbiosi
geolog record the divis of earth histori into time periods, group into three eons—archaean, proterozoic, and phanerozoic—and further subdivid into eras, periods, and epochs.
the divis of earth histori into time periods, group into three eons—archaean, proterozoic, and phanerozoic—and further subdivid into eras, periods, and epochs. geolog record
half-lif the amount of time it take for 50% of a sampl of a radioact isotop to decay.
the amount of time it take for 50% of a sampl of a radioact isotop to decay. half-lif
heterochroni evolutionari chang in the time or rate of an organ development.
evolutionari chang in the time or rate of an organ development. heterochroni
mass extinct period of time when global environment chang lead to the elimin of a larg number of speci throughout earth.
period of time when global environment chang lead to the elimin of a larg number of speci throughout earth. mass extinct
paedomorphosi the retent in an adult organ of the juvenil featur of it evolutionari ancestors.
the retent in an adult organ of the juvenil featur of it evolutionari ancestors. paedomorphosi
protobiont a collect of abiot produc molecul surround by a membran or membrane-lik structure.
a collect of abiot produc molecul surround by a membran or membrane-lik structure. protobiont
radiometr date a method for determin the absolut age of rock and fossils, base on the half-lif of radioact isotopes.
a method for determin the absolut age of rock and fossils, base on the half-lif of radioact isotopes. radiometr date
serial endosymbiosi a hypothesi for the origin of eukaryot consist of a sequenc of endosymbiot event in which mitochondria, chloroplasts, and perhap other cellular structur were deriv from small prokaryot that had been engulf by larger cells.
a hypothesi for the origin of eukaryot consist of a sequenc of endosymbiot event in which mitochondria, chloroplasts, and perhap other cellular structur were deriv from small prokaryot that had been engulf by larger cells. serial endosymbiosi
stromatolit layer rock that  from the  of prokaryot that  thin film of sediment together.
layer rock that  from the  of prokaryot that  thin film of sediment together. stromatolit
analog similar between two speci that is due to converg evolut rather than to descent from a common ancestor with the same trait.
similar between two speci that is due to converg evolut rather than to descent from a common ancestor with the same trait. analog
animalia the kingdom that consist of multicellular eukaryot that ingest their food.
the kingdom that consist of multicellular eukaryot that ingest their food. animalia
binomi the two-part latin name of a species, consist of the genus and specif epithet.
the two-part latin name of a species, consist of the genus and specif epithet. binomi
branch point the represent on a phylogenet tree of the diverg of two or more taxa from a common ancestor. most [these] are shown as dichotomies, in which a branch repres the ancestr lineag split into two branches, one for each of the two descend taxa.
the represent on a phylogenet tree of the diverg of two or more taxa from a common ancestor. most [these] are shown as dichotomies, in which a branch repres the ancestr lineag split into two branches, one for each of the two descend taxa. branch point
carnivor an anim that main eat other animals.
an anim that main eat other animals. carnivor
clade a group of speci that includ an ancestr speci and all it descendants.
a group of speci that includ an ancestr speci and all it descendants. clade
cladist an approach to systemat in which organ are place into group call clade base primarili on common descent.
an approach to systemat in which organ are place into group call clade base primarili on common descent. cladist
class in classification, the taxonom categori abov the level of order.
in classification, the taxonom categori abov the level of order. class
famili in classification, the taxonom categori abov genus.
in classification, the taxonom categori abov genus. famili
genus a taxonom categori abov the speci level, design by the first word of a speci two-part scientif name.
a taxonom categori abov the speci level, design by the first word of a speci two-part scientif name. genus
homoplasi similar (analogous) structur or molecular sequenc that has evolv independ in two species.
similar (analogous) structur or molecular sequenc that has evolv independ in two species. homoplasi
horizont gene transfer the transfer of gene from one genom to anoth through mechan such as transpos elements, plasmid exchange, viral ity, and perhap fusion of differ organisms.
the transfer of gene from one genom to anoth through mechan such as transpos elements, plasmid exchange, viral ity, and perhap fusion of differ organisms. horizont gene transfer
ingroup a speci or group of speci whose evolutionari relationship we seek to determine.
a speci or group of speci whose evolutionari relationship we seek to determine. ingroup
kingdom a taxonom category, the second broadest after domain.
a taxonom category, the second broadest after domain. kingdom
maximum likelihood as appli to systematics, a principl that state that when consid multipl phylogenet hypotheses, one should take into account the hypothesi that reflect the most like sequenc of evolutionari events, given certain rule about how dna chang over time.
as appli to systematics, a principl that state that when consid multipl phylogenet hypotheses, one should take into account the hypothesi that reflect the most like sequenc of evolutionari events, given certain rule about how dna chang over time. maximum likelihood
maximum parsimoni a principl that state that when consid multipl explan for an observation, one should first investig the simplest explan that is consist with the facts.
a principl that state that when consid multipl explan for an observation, one should first investig the simplest explan that is consist with the facts. maximum parsimoni
molecular clock a method for estim the time requir for a given amount of evolutionari change, base on the observ that some region of genom appear to evolv at constant rates.
a method for estim the time requir for a given amount of evolutionari change, base on the observ that some region of genom appear to evolv at constant rates. molecular clock
molecular systemat a scientif disciplin that use nucleic acid or other molecul in differ speci to infer evolutionari relationships.
a scientif disciplin that use nucleic acid or other molecul in differ speci to infer evolutionari relationships. molecular systemat
monophylet pertain to a group of taxa that consist of a common ancestor and all it descendants. a [this] taxon is equival to a clade.
pertain to a group of taxa that consist of a common ancestor and all it descendants. a [this] taxon is equival to a clade. monophylet
neutral theori the hypothesi that much evolutionari chang in gene and protein has no effect on fit and therefor is not influenc by darwinian natur selection.
the hypothesi that much evolutionari chang in gene and protein has no effect on fit and therefor is not influenc by darwinian natur selection. neutral theori
ortholog gene homolog gene that are found in differ speci becaus of speciation.
homolog gene that are found in differ speci becaus of speciation. ortholog gene
outgroup a speci or group of speci from an evolutionari lineag that is known to have diverg befor the lineag that contain the group of speci be studied. [this] is select so that it member are close relat to the group of speci be studied, but not as close relat as ani study-group member are to each other.
a speci or group of speci from an evolutionari lineag that is known to have diverg befor the lineag that contain the group of speci be studied. [this] is select so that it member are close relat to the group of speci be studied, but not as close relat as ani study-group member are to each other. outgroup
paralog gene homolog gene that are found in the same genom as a  of gene duplication.
homolog gene that are found in the same genom as a  of gene duplication. paralog gene
paraphylet pertain to a group of taxa that consist of a common ancestor and some, but not all, of it descendants.
pertain to a group of taxa that consist of a common ancestor and some, but not all, of it descendants. paraphylet
phylocod system of classif of organ base on evolutionari relationships: onli group that includ a common ancestor and all of it descend are named.
system of classif of organ base on evolutionari relationships: onli group that includ a common ancestor and all of it descend are named. phylocod
phylogenet bracket an approach in which featur share by two group of organ are predict (bi parsimony) to be present in their common ancestor and all of it descendants.
an approach in which featur share by two group of organ are predict (bi parsimony) to be present in their common ancestor and all of it descendants. phylogenet bracket
phylogeni the evolutionari histori of a speci or group of relat species.
the evolutionari histori of a speci or group of relat species. phylogeni
phylum in classification, the taxonom categori abov class.
in classification, the taxonom categori abov class. phylum
planta the kingdom that consist of multicellular eukaryot that carri out photosynthesis.
the kingdom that consist of multicellular eukaryot that carri out photosynthesis. planta
polyphylet pertain to a group of taxa deriv from two or more differ ancestors.
pertain to a group of taxa deriv from two or more differ ancestors. polyphylet
polytomi in a phylogenet tree, a branch point from which more than two descend taxa emerge. a [this] indic that the evolutionari relationship among the descend taxa are not yet clear.
in a phylogenet tree, a branch point from which more than two descend taxa emerge. a [this] indic that the evolutionari relationship among the descend taxa are not yet clear. polytomi
root describ a phylogenet tree that contain a branch point (typically, the one farthest to the left) repres the last common ancestor of all taxa in the tree.
describ a phylogenet tree that contain a branch point (typically, the one farthest to the left) repres the last common ancestor of all taxa in the tree. root
share ancestr charact a character, share by member of a particular clade, that origin in an ancestor that is not a member of that clade.
a character, share by member of a particular clade, that origin in an ancestor that is not a member of that clade. share ancestr charact
share deriv charact an evolutionari novelti that is uniqu to a particular clade.
an evolutionari novelti that is uniqu to a particular clade. share deriv charact
sister taxa group of organ that share an immedi common ancestor and henc are each other closest relatives.
group of organ that share an immedi common ancestor and henc are each other closest relatives. sister taxa
systemat a scientif disciplin focus on classifi organ and determin their evolutionari relationships.
a scientif disciplin focus on classifi organ and determin their evolutionari relationships. systemat
taxon a name taxonom unit at ani given level of classification.
a name taxonom unit at ani given level of classification. taxon
taxonomi a scientif disciplin concern with name and classifi the divers  of life.
a scientif disciplin concern with name and classifi the divers  of life. taxonomi
bioremedi the use of organ to detoxifi and restor pollut and degrad ecosystems.
the use of organ to detoxifi and restor pollut and degrad ecosystems. bioremedi
chemoautotroph an organ that need onli carbon dioxid as a carbon sourc but obtain energi by oxid inorgan substances.
an organ that need onli carbon dioxid as a carbon sourc but obtain energi by oxid inorgan substances. chemoautotroph
chemoheterotroph an organ that must consum organ molecul for both energi and carbon.
an organ that must consum organ molecul for both energi and carbon. chemoheterotroph
conjug in prokaryotes, the direct transfer of dna between two cell (of the same or differ species) that are temporarili joined. in ciliates, a sexual process in which two cell exchang haploid micronuclei.
in prokaryotes, the direct transfer of dna between two cell (of the same or differ species) that are temporarili joined. in ciliates, a sexual process in which two cell exchang haploid micronuclei. conjug
endospor a thick-coated, resist cell produc by a bacteri cell expos to harsh conditions.
a thick-coated, resist cell produc by a bacteri cell expos to harsh conditions. endospor
endotoxin a toxic compon of the outer membran of certain gram-neg bacteria that is releas onli when the bacteria die.
a toxic compon of the outer membran of certain gram-neg bacteria that is releas onli when the bacteria die. endotoxin
exotoxin a toxic protein that is secret by a prokaryot or other pathogen and that produc specif symptoms, even if the pathogen is no longer present.
a toxic protein that is secret by a prokaryot or other pathogen and that produc specif symptoms, even if the pathogen is no longer present. exotoxin
extrem halophil an organ that live in a high salin environment, such as the great salt lake or the dead sea.
an organ that live in a high salin environment, such as the great salt lake or the dead sea. extrem halophil
extrem thermophil an organ that thrive in hot environ (often 60–80°c or hotter).
an organ that thrive in hot environ (often 60–80°c or hotter). extrem thermophil
extremophil an organ that live in an environ whose condit are so extrem that few other speci can surviv there. [these] includ extrem halophil and extrem thermophiles.
an organ that live in an environ whose condit are so extrem that few other speci can surviv there. [these] includ extrem halophil and extrem thermophiles. extremophil
f factor in bacteria, the dna segment that confer the abil to  pili for conjug and associ function requir for the transfer of dna from donor to recipient. [this] may exist as a plasmid or be integr into the bacteri chromosome.
in bacteria, the dna segment that confer the abil to  pili for conjug and associ function requir for the transfer of dna from donor to recipient. [this] may exist as a plasmid or be integr into the bacteri chromosome. f factor
f plasmid the plasmid  of the f factor.
the plasmid  of the f factor. f plasmid
fimbria a short, hairlik appendag of a prokaryot cell that help it adher to the substrat or to other cells; also known as an attach pilus.
a short, hairlik appendag of a prokaryot cell that help it adher to the substrat or to other cells; also known as an attach pilus. fimbria
gram stain a stain method that distinguish between two differ kind of bacteri cell walls.
a stain method that distinguish between two differ kind of bacteri cell walls. gram stain
gram-neg describ the group of bacteria that have a cell wall that is structur more complex and contain less peptidoglycan than the cell wall of gram-posit bacteria. [this] bacteria are often more toxic than gram-posit bacteria.
describ the group of bacteria that have a cell wall that is structur more complex and contain less peptidoglycan than the cell wall of gram-posit bacteria. [this] bacteria are often more toxic than gram-posit bacteria. gram-neg
gram-posit describ the group of bacteria that have a cell wall that is structur less complex and contain more peptidoglycan than the cell wall of gram-neg bacteria. [this] bacteria are usual less toxic than gram-neg bacteria.
describ the group of bacteria that have a cell wall that is structur less complex and contain more peptidoglycan than the cell wall of gram-neg bacteria. [this] bacteria are usual less toxic than gram-neg bacteria. gram-posit
heterocyt a special cell that engag in nitrogen fixat in some filament cyanobacteria; er call heterocyst.
a special cell that engag in nitrogen fixat in some filament cyanobacteria; er call heterocyst. heterocyt
methanogen an organ that obtain energi by use carbon dioxid to oxid hydrogen, produc methan as a wast product; all known [these] are in domain archaea.
an organ that obtain energi by use carbon dioxid to oxid hydrogen, produc methan as a wast product; all known [these] are in domain archaea. methanogen
mutual a symbiot relationship in which both particip benefit.
a symbiot relationship in which both particip benefit. mutual
nitrogen fixat the convers of atmospher nitrogen (n2) to ammonia (nh3). biolog [this] is carri out by certain prokaryotes, some of which have mutualist relationship with plants.
the convers of atmospher nitrogen (n2) to ammonia (nh3). biolog [this] is carri out by certain prokaryotes, some of which have mutualist relationship with plants. nitrogen fixat
oblig aerob an organ that requir oxygen for cellular respir and cannot live without it.
an organ that requir oxygen for cellular respir and cannot live without it. oblig aerob
peptidoglycan a type of polym in bacteri cell wall consist of modifi sugar cross-link by short polypeptides.
a type of polym in bacteri cell wall consist of modifi sugar cross-link by short polypeptides. peptidoglycan
photoheterotroph an organ that use light to generat atp but must obtain carbon in organ .
an organ that use light to generat atp but must obtain carbon in organ . photoheterotroph
r plasmid a bacteri plasmid carri gene that confer resist to certain antibiotics.
a bacteri plasmid carri gene that confer resist to certain antibiotics. r plasmid
symbiont the smaller particip in a symbiot relationship, live in or on the host.
the smaller particip in a symbiot relationship, live in or on the host. symbiont
alveol a protist with membrane-bound sac (alveoli) locat just under the plasma membrane.
a protist with membrane-bound sac (alveoli) locat just under the plasma membrane. alveol
amoebozoan a protist in a clade that includ mani speci with lobe- or tube-shap pseudopodia.
a protist in a clade that includ mani speci with lobe- or tube-shap pseudopodia. amoebozoan
apicomplexan a protist in a clade that includ mani speci that parasit animals. some [these] caus human disease.
a protist in a clade that includ mani speci that parasit animals. some [these] caus human disease. apicomplexan
archaeplastida one of five supergroup of eukaryot propos in a current hypothesi of the evolutionari histori of eukaryotes. this monophylet group, which includ red algae, green algae, and land plants, descend from an ancient protist ancestor that engulf a cyanobacterium. see also excavata, chromalveolata, rhizaria, and unikonta.
one of five supergroup of eukaryot propos in a current hypothesi of the evolutionari histori of eukaryotes. this monophylet group, which includ red algae, green algae, and land plants, descend from an ancient protist ancestor that engulf a cyanobacterium. see also excavata, chromalveolata, rhizaria, and unikonta. archaeplastida
brown alga a multicellular, photosynthet protist with a characterist brown or oliv color that  from carotenoid in it plastids. most [these] are marine, and some have a plantlik bodi (thallus).
a multicellular, photosynthet protist with a characterist brown or oliv color that  from carotenoid in it plastids. most [these] are marine, and some have a plantlik bodi (thallus). brown alga
cellular slime mold a type of protist that has unicellular amoeboid cell and aggreg reproduct bodi in it life cycle.
a type of protist that has unicellular amoeboid cell and aggreg reproduct bodi in it life cycle. cellular slime mold
chromalveolata one of five supergroup of eukaryot propos in a current hypothesi of the evolutionari histori of eukaryotes. [these] may have origin by secondari endosymbiosi and includ two larg protist clades, the alveol and the stramenopiles. see also excavata, rhizaria, archaeplastida, and unikonta.
one of five supergroup of eukaryot propos in a current hypothesi of the evolutionari histori of eukaryotes. [these] may have origin by secondari endosymbiosi and includ two larg protist clades, the alveol and the stramenopiles. see also excavata, rhizaria, archaeplastida, and unikonta. chromalveolata
ciliat a type of protist that move by mean of cilia.
a type of protist that move by mean of cilia. ciliat
diatom a unicellular photosynthet alga with a uniqu glassi cell wall contain silica.
a unicellular photosynthet alga with a uniqu glassi cell wall contain silica. diatom
dinoflagel member of a group of most unicellular photosynthet alga with two flagella situat in perpendicular groov in cellulos plate cover the cell.
member of a group of most unicellular photosynthet alga with two flagella situat in perpendicular groov in cellulos plate cover the cell. dinoflagel
diplomonad a protist that has modifi mitochondria, two equal-s nuclei, and multipl flagella.
a protist that has modifi mitochondria, two equal-s nuclei, and multipl flagella. diplomonad
euglenid a protist, such as euglena or it relatives, character by an anterior pocket from which one or two flagella emerge.
a protist, such as euglena or it relatives, character by an anterior pocket from which one or two flagella emerge. euglenid
euglenozoan member of a divers clade of flagel protist that includ predatori heterotrophs, photosynthet autotrophs, and pathogen parasites.
member of a divers clade of flagel protist that includ predatori heterotrophs, photosynthet autotrophs, and pathogen parasites. euglenozoan
excavata one of five supergroup of eukaryot propos in a current hypothesi of the evolutionari histori of eukaryotes. [this] member have uniqu cytoskelet features, and some speci have an “excavated” feed groov on one side of the cell body. see also chromalveolata, rhizaria, archaeplastida, and unikonta.
one of five supergroup of eukaryot propos in a current hypothesi of the evolutionari histori of eukaryotes. [this] member have uniqu cytoskelet features, and some speci have an “excavated” feed groov on one side of the cell body. see also chromalveolata, rhizaria, archaeplastida, and unikonta. excavata
foram (foraminiferan) an aquat protist that secret a harden shell contain calcium carbon and extend pseudopodia through pore in the shell.
an aquat protist that secret a harden shell contain calcium carbon and extend pseudopodia through pore in the shell. foram (foraminiferan)
golden alga a biflagellated, photosynthet protist name for it color, which  from it yellow and brown carotenoids.
a biflagellated, photosynthet protist name for it color, which  from it yellow and brown carotenoids. golden alga
heteromorph refer to a condit in the life cycl of plant and certain alga in which the sporophyt and gametophyt generat differ in morphology.
refer to a condit in the life cycl of plant and certain alga in which the sporophyt and gametophyt generat differ in morphology. heteromorph
holdfast a rootlik structur that anchor a seaweed.
a rootlik structur that anchor a seaweed. holdfast
isomorph refer to altern generat in plant and certain alga in which the sporophyt and gametophyt look alike, although they differ in chromosom number.
refer to altern generat in plant and certain alga in which the sporophyt and gametophyt look alike, although they differ in chromosom number. isomorph
kinetoplastid a protist, such as a trypanosome, that has a singl larg mitochondrion that hous an organ mass of dna.
a protist, such as a trypanosome, that has a singl larg mitochondrion that hous an organ mass of dna. kinetoplastid
mixotroph an organ that is capabl of both photosynthesi and heterotrophy.
an organ that is capabl of both photosynthesi and heterotrophy. mixotroph
oomycet a protist with flagel cells, such as a water mold, white rust, or downi mildew, that acquir nutrit main as a decompos or plant parasite.
a protist with flagel cells, such as a water mold, white rust, or downi mildew, that acquir nutrit main as a decompos or plant parasite. oomycet
opisthokont member of the divers clade opisthokonta, organ that descend from an ancestor with a posterior flagellum, includ fungi, animals, and certain protists.
member of the divers clade opisthokonta, organ that descend from an ancestor with a posterior flagellum, includ fungi, animals, and certain protists. opisthokont
parabasalid a protist, such as a trichomonad, with modifi mitochondria.
a protist, such as a trichomonad, with modifi mitochondria. parabasalid
plasmodi slime mold a type of protist that has amoeboid cells, flagel cells, and a plasmodi feed stage in it life cycle.
a type of protist that has amoeboid cells, flagel cells, and a plasmodi feed stage in it life cycle. plasmodi slime mold
plasmodium a singl mass of cytoplasm contain mani diploid nuclei that  dure the life cycl of some slime molds.
a singl mass of cytoplasm contain mani diploid nuclei that  dure the life cycl of some slime molds. plasmodium
protist an in term appli to ani eukaryot that is not a plant, animal, or fungus. most [these] are unicellular, though some are coloni or multicellular.
an in term appli to ani eukaryot that is not a plant, animal, or fungus. most [these] are unicellular, though some are coloni or multicellular. protist
radiolarian a protist, usual marine, with a shell general made of silica and pseudopodia that radiat from the central body.
a protist, usual marine, with a shell general made of silica and pseudopodia that radiat from the central body. radiolarian
red alga a photosynthet protist, name for it color, which  from a red pigment that  the green of chlorophyll. most [these] are multicellular and marine.
a photosynthet protist, name for it color, which  from a red pigment that  the green of chlorophyll. most [these] are multicellular and marine. red alga
redox reaction a chemic reaction involv the complet or partial transfer of one or more electron from one reactant to another; short for oxidation-reduct reaction.
a chemic reaction involv the complet or partial transfer of one or more electron from one reactant to another; short for oxidation-reduct reaction. redox reaction
rhizaria one of five supergroup of eukaryot propos in a current hypothesi of the evolutionari histori of eukaryotes; a morpholog divers protist clade that is defin by dna similarities. see also excavata, chromalveolata, archaeplastida, and unikonta.
one of five supergroup of eukaryot propos in a current hypothesi of the evolutionari histori of eukaryotes; a morpholog divers protist clade that is defin by dna similarities. see also excavata, chromalveolata, archaeplastida, and unikonta. rhizaria
secondari endosymbiosi a process in eukaryot evolut in which a heterotroph eukaryot cell engulf a photosynthet eukaryot cell, which surviv in a symbiot relationship insid the heterotroph cell.
a process in eukaryot evolut in which a heterotroph eukaryot cell engulf a photosynthet eukaryot cell, which surviv in a symbiot relationship insid the heterotroph cell. secondari endosymbiosi
stipe a stemlik structur of a seaweed.
a stemlik structur of a seaweed. stipe
stramenopil a protist in which a “hairy” flagellum (one cover with fine, hairlik projections) is pair with a shorter, smooth flagellum.
a protist in which a “hairy” flagellum (one cover with fine, hairlik projections) is pair with a shorter, smooth flagellum. stramenopil
thallus a seawe bodi that is plantlike, consist of a holdfast, stipe, and blades, yet lack true roots, stems, and leaves.
a seawe bodi that is plantlike, consist of a holdfast, stipe, and blades, yet lack true roots, stems, and leaves. thallus
unikonta one of five supergroup of eukaryot propos in a current hypothesi of the evolutionari histori of eukaryotes. this clade, which is support by studi of myosin protein and dna, consist of amoebozoan and opisthokonts. see also excavata, chromalveolata, rhizaria, and archaeplastida.
one of five supergroup of eukaryot propos in a current hypothesi of the evolutionari histori of eukaryotes. this clade, which is support by studi of myosin protein and dna, consist of amoebozoan and opisthokonts. see also excavata, chromalveolata, rhizaria, and archaeplastida. unikonta
angiosperm a flower plant, which  seed insid a protect chamber call an ovary.
a flower plant, which  seed insid a protect chamber call an ovary. angiosperm
antheridium in plants, the male gametangium, a moist chamber in which gamet develop.
in plants, the male gametangium, a moist chamber in which gamet develop. antheridium
archegonium in plants, the femal gametangium, a moist chamber in which gamet develop.
in plants, the femal gametangium, a moist chamber in which gamet develop. archegonium
bryophyt an in name for a moss, liverwort, or hornwort; a nonvascular plant that live on land but lack some of the terrestri adapt of vascular plants.
an in name for a moss, liverwort, or hornwort; a nonvascular plant that live on land but lack some of the terrestri adapt of vascular plants. bryophyt
embryophyt altern name for land plant that refer to their share deriv trait of multicellular, depend embryos.
altern name for land plant that refer to their share deriv trait of multicellular, depend embryos. embryophyt
foot (1) the portion of a bryophyt sporophyt that gather sugars, amino acids, water, and miner from the parent gametophyt via transfer cells. (2) one of the three main part of a mollusc; a muscular structur usual use for movement. see also mantle, viscer mass.
(1) the portion of a bryophyt sporophyt that gather sugars, amino acids, water, and miner from the parent gametophyt via transfer cells. (2) one of the three main part of a mollusc; a muscular structur usual use for movement. see also mantle, viscer mass. foot
gametangium multicellular plant structur in which gamet are ed. femal [these] are call archegonia, and male [these] are call antheridia.
multicellular plant structur in which gamet are ed. femal [these] are call archegonia, and male [these] are call antheridia. gametangium
gametophor the matur gamete-produc structur of a moss gametophyte.
the matur gamete-produc structur of a moss gametophyte. gametophor
grade a group of organ that share the same level of organiz complex or share a key adaptation.
a group of organ that share the same level of organiz complex or share a key adaptation. grade
gymnosperm a vascular plant that bear nake seeds—se not enclos in special chambers.
a vascular plant that bear nake seeds—se not enclos in special chambers. gymnosperm
heterospor refer to a plant speci that has two kind of spores: microspores, which develop into male gametophytes, and megaspores, which develop into femal gametophytes.
refer to a plant speci that has two kind of spores: microspores, which develop into male gametophytes, and megaspores, which develop into femal gametophytes. heterospor
homospor refer to a plant speci that has a singl kind of spore, which typic develop into a bisexu gametophyte.
refer to a plant speci that has a singl kind of spore, which typic develop into a bisexu gametophyte. homospor
hornwort a small, herbac nonvascular plant that is a member of the phylum anthocerophyta.
a small, herbac nonvascular plant that is a member of the phylum anthocerophyta. hornwort
lignin a hard materi embed in the cellulos matrix of vascular plant cell wall that provid structur support in terrestri species.
a hard materi embed in the cellulos matrix of vascular plant cell wall that provid structur support in terrestri species. lignin
liverwort a small, herbac nonvascular plant that is a member of the phylum hepatophyta.
a small, herbac nonvascular plant that is a member of the phylum hepatophyta. liverwort
lycophyt an in name for a member of the phylum lycophyta, which includ club mosses, spike mosses, and quillworts.
an in name for a member of the phylum lycophyta, which includ club mosses, spike mosses, and quillworts. lycophyt
megaphyl a leaf with a high branch vascular system, characterist of the vast major of vascular plants.
a leaf with a high branch vascular system, characterist of the vast major of vascular plants. megaphyl
megaspor a spore from a heterospor plant speci that develop into a femal gametophyte.
a spore from a heterospor plant speci that develop into a femal gametophyte. megaspor
microphyl in lycophytes, a small leaf with a singl unbranch vein.
in lycophytes, a small leaf with a singl unbranch vein. microphyl
microspor a spore from a heterospor plant speci that develop into a male gametophyte.
a spore from a heterospor plant speci that develop into a male gametophyte. microspor
moss a small, herbac nonvascular plant that is a member of the phylum bryophyta.
a small, herbac nonvascular plant that is a member of the phylum bryophyta. moss
mycorrhiza a mutualist associ of plant root and fungus.
a mutualist associ of plant root and fungus. mycorrhiza
peat extens deposit of partial decay organ materi  primarili from the wetland moss sphagnum.
extens deposit of partial decay organ materi  primarili from the wetland moss sphagnum. peat
peristom a ring of interlocking, tooth-lik structur on the upper part of a moss capsul (sporangium), often special for gradual spore discharge.
a ring of interlocking, tooth-lik structur on the upper part of a moss capsul (sporangium), often special for gradual spore discharge. peristom
phragmoplast an align of cytoskelet element and golgi-deriv vesicl that  across the midlin of a divid plant cell.
an align of cytoskelet element and golgi-deriv vesicl that  across the midlin of a divid plant cell. phragmoplast
placent transfer cell a plant cell that enhanc the transfer of nutrient from parent to embryo.
a plant cell that enhanc the transfer of nutrient from parent to embryo. placent transfer cell
protonema a mass of green, branched, one-cell-thick filament produc by germin moss spores.
a mass of green, branched, one-cell-thick filament produc by germin moss spores. protonema
pterophyt an in name for a member of the phylum pterophyta, which includ ferns, horsetails, and whisk fern and their relatives.
an in name for a member of the phylum pterophyta, which includ ferns, horsetails, and whisk fern and their relatives. pterophyt
rhizoid a long, tubular singl cell or filament of cell that anchor bryophyt to the ground. unlik roots, [these] are not compos of tissues, lack special conduct cells, and do not play a primari role in water and miner absorption.
a long, tubular singl cell or filament of cell that anchor bryophyt to the ground. unlik roots, [these] are not compos of tissues, lack special conduct cells, and do not play a primari role in water and miner absorption. rhizoid
seed an adapt of some terrestri plant consist of an embryo packag along with a store of food within a protect coat.
an adapt of some terrestri plant consist of an embryo packag along with a store of food within a protect coat. seed
seedless vascular plant an in name for a plant that has vascular tissu but lack seeds. [these]  a paraphylet group that includ the phyla lycophyta (club moss and their relatives) and pterophyta (fern and their relatives).
an in name for a plant that has vascular tissu but lack seeds. [these]  a paraphylet group that includ the phyla lycophyta (club moss and their relatives) and pterophyta (fern and their relatives). seedless vascular plant
seta the elong stalk of a bryophyt sporophyte.
the elong stalk of a bryophyt sporophyte. seta
sorus a cluster of sporangia on a fern sporophyll. [these] may be arrang in various patterns, such as parallel line or dots, which are use in fern identification.
a cluster of sporangia on a fern sporophyll. [these] may be arrang in various patterns, such as parallel line or dots, which are use in fern identification. sorus
sporangium a multicellular organ in fungi and plant in which meiosi occur and haploid cell develop.
a multicellular organ in fungi and plant in which meiosi occur and haploid cell develop. sporangium
sporocyt a diploid cell, also known as a spore mother cell, that undergo meiosi and generat haploid spores.
a diploid cell, also known as a spore mother cell, that undergo meiosi and generat haploid spores. sporocyt
sporophyl a modifi leaf that bear sporangia and henc is special for reproduction.
a modifi leaf that bear sporangia and henc is special for reproduction. sporophyl
sporopollenin a durabl polym that cover expos zygot of charophyt alga and  the wall of plant spores, prevent them from dri out.
a durabl polym that cover expos zygot of charophyt alga and  the wall of plant spores, prevent them from dri out. sporopollenin
strobilus the technic term for a cluster of sporophyl known common as a cone, found in most gymnosperm and some seedless vascular plants.
the technic term for a cluster of sporophyl known common as a cone, found in most gymnosperm and some seedless vascular plants. strobilus
vascular plant a plant with vascular tissue. [these] includ all live plant speci except mosses, liverworts, and hornworts.
a plant with vascular tissue. [these] includ all live plant speci except mosses, liverworts, and hornworts. vascular plant
vascular tissu plant tissu consist of cell join into tube that transport water and nutrient throughout the plant body.
plant tissu consist of cell join into tube that transport water and nutrient throughout the plant body. vascular tissu
absorpt the third stage of food process in animals: the uptak of small nutrient molecul by an organ body.
the third stage of food process in animals: the uptak of small nutrient molecul by an organ body. absorpt
alimentari canal a digest tract consist of a tube run between a mouth and an anus; also call a complet digest tract.
a digest tract consist of a tube run between a mouth and an anus; also call a complet digest tract. alimentari canal
amylas an enzym in saliva that hydrolyz starch (a glucos polym from plants) and glycogen (a glucos polym from animals) into smaller polysaccharid and the disaccharid maltose.
an enzym in saliva that hydrolyz starch (a glucos polym from plants) and glycogen (a glucos polym from animals) into smaller polysaccharid and the disaccharid maltose. amylas
appendix a small, finger-lik extens of the vertebr cecum; contain a mass of white blood cell that contribut to immunity.
a small, finger-lik extens of the vertebr cecum; contain a mass of white blood cell that contribut to immunity. appendix
bile a mixtur of substanc that is produc in the liver but store in the gallbladd and that enabl at of fat droplet in water as an aid in the digest and absorpt of fats.
a mixtur of substanc that is produc in the liver but store in the gallbladd and that enabl at of fat droplet in water as an aid in the digest and absorpt of fats. bile
bolus a lubric ball of chew food.
a lubric ball of chew food. bolus
bulk feeder an anim that eat relat larg piec of food.
an anim that eat relat larg piec of food. bulk feeder
cecum the blind pouch at the begin of the larg intestine.
the blind pouch at the begin of the larg intestine. cecum
chylomicron a small globul that transport lipids. [these] are compos of fat mix with cholesterol and coat with proteins.
a small globul that transport lipids. [these] are compos of fat mix with cholesterol and coat with proteins. chylomicron
chyme the mixtur of partial digest food and digest juic  in the stomach.
the mixtur of partial digest food and digest juic  in the stomach. chyme
colon the largest section of the vertebr larg intestine; function in water absorpt and at of feces.
the largest section of the vertebr larg intestine; function in water absorpt and at of feces. colon
complet digest tract a digest tube that run between a mouth and an anus; also call an alimentari canal.
a digest tube that run between a mouth and an anus; also call an alimentari canal. complet digest tract
digest the second stage of food process in animals: the break down of food into molecul small enough for the bodi to absorb.
the second stage of food process in animals: the break down of food into molecul small enough for the bodi to absorb. digest
duodenum the first section of the small intestine, where chyme from the stomach mix with digest juic from the pancreas, liver, and gallbladd as well as from gland cell of the intestin wall.
the first section of the small intestine, where chyme from the stomach mix with digest juic from the pancreas, liver, and gallbladd as well as from gland cell of the intestin wall. duodenum
elimin the fourth and final stage of food process in animals: the pass of undigest materi out of the digest system.
the fourth and final stage of food process in animals: the pass of undigest materi out of the digest system. elimin
enzymat hydrolysi the process in digest that split macromolecul from food by the enzymat addit of water.
the process in digest that split macromolecul from food by the enzymat addit of water. enzymat hydrolysi
esophagus a channel that conduct food, by peristalsis, from the pharynx to the stomach.
a channel that conduct food, by peristalsis, from the pharynx to the stomach. esophagus
essenti amino acid an amino acid that an anim cannot synthes itself and must be obtain from food in prefabr . eight amino acid are essenti in the human adult.
an amino acid that an anim cannot synthes itself and must be obtain from food in prefabr . eight amino acid are essenti in the human adult. essenti amino acid
essenti fatti acid an unsatur fatti acid that an anim need but cannot make.
an unsatur fatti acid that an anim need but cannot make. essenti fatti acid
essenti nutrient a substanc that an organ must absorb in preassembl  becaus it cannot be synthes from ani other material. in humans, there are essenti vitamins, minerals, amino acids, and fatti acids.
a substanc that an organ must absorb in preassembl  becaus it cannot be synthes from ani other material. in humans, there are essenti vitamins, minerals, amino acids, and fatti acids. essenti nutrient
extracellular digest the breakdown of food in compart that are continu with the outsid of an anim body.
the breakdown of food in compart that are continu with the outsid of an anim body. extracellular digest
fece the wast of the digest tract.
the wast of the digest tract. fece
fluid feeder an anim that live by suck nutrient-rich fluid from anoth live organism.
an anim that live by suck nutrient-rich fluid from anoth live organism. fluid feeder
gallbladd an organ that store bile and releas it as need into the small intestine.
an organ that store bile and releas it as need into the small intestine. gallbladd
gastric juic a digest fluid secret by the stomach.
a digest fluid secret by the stomach. gastric juic
gastrovascular caviti a central caviti with a singl open in the bodi of certain anim that function in both the digest and distribut of nutrients.
a central caviti with a singl open in the bodi of certain anim that function in both the digest and distribut of nutrients. gastrovascular caviti
hepat portal vein a larg circulatori channel that convey nutrient-laden blood from the small intestin to the liver, which regul the blood nutrient content.
a larg circulatori channel that convey nutrient-laden blood from the small intestin to the liver, which regul the blood nutrient content. hepat portal vein
herbivor an anim that main eat plant or algae.
an anim that main eat plant or algae. herbivor
ingest the first stage of food process in animals: the act of eating.
the first stage of food process in animals: the act of eating. ingest
intracellular digest the hydrolysi of food insid vacuoles.
the hydrolysi of food insid vacuoles. intracellular digest
lacteal a tini lymph vessel extend into the core of an intestin villus and serv as the destin for absorb chylomicrons.
a tini lymph vessel extend into the core of an intestin villus and serv as the destin for absorb chylomicrons. lacteal
larg intestin the tubular portion of the vertebr alimentari canal between the small intestin and the anus; function main in water absorpt and the at of feces.
the tubular portion of the vertebr alimentari canal between the small intestin and the anus; function main in water absorpt and the at of feces. larg intestin
larynx the portion of the respiratori tract contain the vocal cords; also call the voic box.
the portion of the respiratori tract contain the vocal cords; also call the voic box. larynx
liver the largest intern organ in the vertebr body. the [this] per divers functions, such as produc bile, prepar nitrogen wast for disposal, and detoxifi poison chemic in the blood.
the largest intern organ in the vertebr body. the [this] per divers functions, such as produc bile, prepar nitrogen wast for disposal, and detoxifi poison chemic in the blood. liver
malnourish the long-term absenc from the diet of one or more essenti nutrients.
the long-term absenc from the diet of one or more essenti nutrients. malnourish
microvillus one of mani fine, finger-lik project of the epitheli cell in the lumen of the small intestin that increas it surfac area.
one of mani fine, finger-lik project of the epitheli cell in the lumen of the small intestin that increas it surfac area. microvillus
miner in nutrition, a simpl nutrient that is inorgan and therefor cannot be synthesized.
in nutrition, a simpl nutrient that is inorgan and therefor cannot be synthesized. miner
mucus a viscous and slipperi mixtur of glycoproteins, cells, salts, and water that moisten and protect the membran line bodi caviti that open to the exterior.
a viscous and slipperi mixtur of glycoproteins, cells, salts, and water that moisten and protect the membran line bodi caviti that open to the exterior. mucus
notochord a longitudinal, flexibl rod made of tight pack mesoderm cell that run along the anterior-posterior axi of a chordat in the dorsal part of the body.
a longitudinal, flexibl rod made of tight pack mesoderm cell that run along the anterior-posterior axi of a chordat in the dorsal part of the body. notochord
nutrit the process by which an organ take in and make use of food substances.
the process by which an organ take in and make use of food substances. nutrit
omnivor an anim that regular eat anim as well as plant or algae.
an anim that regular eat anim as well as plant or algae. omnivor
oral caviti the mouth of an animal.
the mouth of an animal. oral caviti
overnourish the consumpt of more calori than the bodi need for normal metabolism.
the consumpt of more calori than the bodi need for normal metabolism. overnourish
pepsin an enzym present in gastric juic that begin the hydrolysi of proteins.
an enzym present in gastric juic that begin the hydrolysi of proteins. pepsin
pepsinogen the inact  of pepsin that is first secret by chief cell locat in gastric pit of the stomach.
the inact  of pepsin that is first secret by chief cell locat in gastric pit of the stomach. pepsinogen
peristalsi (1) altern wave of contract and relax in the smooth muscl line the alimentari canal that push food along the canal. (2) a type of movement on land produc by rhythmic wave of muscl contract pass from front to back, as in mani annelids.
(1) altern wave of contract and relax in the smooth muscl line the alimentari canal that push food along the canal. (2) a type of movement on land produc by rhythmic wave of muscl contract pass from front to back, as in mani annelids. peristalsi
pharynx (1) an area in the vertebr throat where air and food passag cross. (2) in flatworms, the muscular tube that protrud from the ventral side of the worm and end in the mouth.
(1) an area in the vertebr throat where air and food passag cross. (2) in flatworms, the muscular tube that protrud from the ventral side of the worm and end in the mouth. pharynx
proteas an enzym that digest protein by hydrolysis.
an enzym that digest protein by hydrolysis. proteas
rectum the termin portion of the larg intestin where the fece are store until they are eliminated.
the termin portion of the larg intestin where the fece are store until they are eliminated. rectum
rumin an animal, such as a cow or a sheep, with an elaborate, multicompartment stomach special for an herbivor diet.
an animal, such as a cow or a sheep, with an elaborate, multicompartment stomach special for an herbivor diet. rumin
salivari gland a gland associ with the oral caviti that secret substanc to lubric food and begin the process of chemic digestion.
a gland associ with the oral caviti that secret substanc to lubric food and begin the process of chemic digestion. salivari gland
small intestin the longest section of the alimentari canal, so name becaus of it small diamet compar with that of the larg intestine; the princip site of the enzymat hydrolysi of food macromolecul and the absorpt of nutrients.
the longest section of the alimentari canal, so name becaus of it small diamet compar with that of the larg intestine; the princip site of the enzymat hydrolysi of food macromolecul and the absorpt of nutrients. small intestin
sphincter a ringlik valve, consist of modifi muscl in a muscular tube, that regul passag between some compart of the alimentari canal.
a ringlik valve, consist of modifi muscl in a muscular tube, that regul passag between some compart of the alimentari canal. sphincter
stomach an organ of the digest system that store food and per preliminari step of digestion.
an organ of the digest system that store food and per preliminari step of digestion. stomach
substrat feeder an anim that live in or on it food source, eat it way through the food.
an anim that live in or on it food source, eat it way through the food. substrat feeder
suspens feeder an aquat animal, such as a sponge, clam, or baleen whale, that feed by sift small food particl from the water.
an aquat animal, such as a sponge, clam, or baleen whale, that feed by sift small food particl from the water. suspens feeder
trachea the portion of the respiratori tract that pass from the larynx to the bronchi; also call the windpipe.
the portion of the respiratori tract that pass from the larynx to the bronchi; also call the windpipe. trachea
undernourish a condit that  from a diet that consist suppli less chemic energi than the bodi requires.
a condit that  from a diet that consist suppli less chemic energi than the bodi requires. undernourish
villus (1) a finger-lik project of the inner surfac of the small intestine. (2) a finger-lik project of the chorion of the mammalian placenta. larg number of [these] increas the surfac area of these organs.
(1) a finger-lik project of the inner surfac of the small intestine. (2) a finger-lik project of the chorion of the mammalian placenta. larg number of [these] increas the surfac area of these organs. villus
vitamin an organ molecul requir in the diet in veri small amounts. [these] serv primarili as coenzym or part of coenzymes.
an organ molecul requir in the diet in veri small amounts. [these] serv primarili as coenzym or part of coenzymes. vitamin
amacrin cell a neuron of the retina that help integr in befor it is sent to the brain.
a neuron of the retina that help integr in befor it is sent to the brain. amacrin cell
aqueous humor plasma-lik liquid in the space between the len and the cornea in the vertebr eye; help maintain the shape of the eye, suppli nutrient and oxygen to it tissues, and dispos of it wastes.
plasma-lik liquid in the space between the len and the cornea in the vertebr eye; help maintain the shape of the eye, suppli nutrient and oxygen to it tissues, and dispos of it wastes. aqueous humor
bipolar cell a neuron that relay in between photoreceptor and ganglion cell in the retina.
a neuron that relay in between photoreceptor and ganglion cell in the retina. bipolar cell
bodi plan in animals, a set of morpholog and development trait that are integr into a function whole—th live animal.
in animals, a set of morpholog and development trait that are integr into a function whole—th live animal. bodi plan
chemoreceptor a sensori receptor that respond to a chemic stimulus, such as a solut or an odorant.
a sensori receptor that respond to a chemic stimulus, such as a solut or an odorant. chemoreceptor
choroid a thin, pigment inner layer of the vertebr eye.
a thin, pigment inner layer of the vertebr eye. choroid
ciliari bodi a portion of the vertebr eye associ with the lens. it produc the clear, wateri aqueous humor that fill the anterior caviti of the eye.
a portion of the vertebr eye associ with the lens. it produc the clear, wateri aqueous humor that fill the anterior caviti of the eye. ciliari bodi
cochlea the complex, coil organ of hear that contain the organ of corti.
the complex, coil organ of hear that contain the organ of corti. cochlea
compound eye a type of multifacet eye in insect and crustacean consist of up to sever thousand light-detecting, focus ommatidia; especi good at detect movement.
a type of multifacet eye in insect and crustacean consist of up to sever thousand light-detecting, focus ommatidia; especi good at detect movement. compound eye
cone a [this]-shap cell in the retina of the vertebr eye, sensit to color.
a [this]-shap cell in the retina of the vertebr eye, sensit to color. cone
cornea the transpar frontal portion of the sclera, which admit light into the vertebr eye.
the transpar frontal portion of the sclera, which admit light into the vertebr eye. cornea
electromagnet receptor a receptor of electromagnet energy, such as visibl light, electricity, or magnetism.
a receptor of electromagnet energy, such as visibl light, electricity, or magnetism. electromagnet receptor
endoskeleton a hard skeleton buri within the soft tissu of an animal, such as the spicul of sponges, the plate of echinoderms, and the boni skeleton of vertebrates.
a hard skeleton buri within the soft tissu of an animal, such as the spicul of sponges, the plate of echinoderms, and the boni skeleton of vertebrates. endoskeleton
eustachian tube the tube that connect the middl ear to the pharynx.
the tube that connect the middl ear to the pharynx. eustachian tube
exoskeleton a hard encas on the surfac of an animal, such as the shell of a mollusc or the cuticl of an arthropod, that provid protect and point of attach for muscles.
a hard encas on the surfac of an animal, such as the shell of a mollusc or the cuticl of an arthropod, that provid protect and point of attach for muscles. exoskeleton
fast-twitch fiber a muscl fiber use for rapid, power contractions.
a muscl fiber use for rapid, power contractions. fast-twitch fiber
fovea the place on the retina at the eye center of focus, where cone are high concentrated.
the place on the retina at the eye center of focus, where cone are high concentrated. fovea
ganglion cell a type of neuron in the retina that synaps with bipolar cell and transmit action potenti to the brain via axon in the optic nerve.
a type of neuron in the retina that synaps with bipolar cell and transmit action potenti to the brain via axon in the optic nerve. ganglion cell
heart a muscular pump that use metabol energi to elev the hydrostat pressur of the circulatori fluid (blood or hemolymph). the fluid then flow down a pressur gradient through the bodi and eventu return to the [this].
a muscular pump that use metabol energi to elev the hydrostat pressur of the circulatori fluid (blood or hemolymph). the fluid then flow down a pressur gradient through the bodi and eventu return to the [this]. heart
horizont cell a neuron of the retina that help integr in befor it is sent to the brain.
a neuron of the retina that help integr in befor it is sent to the brain. horizont cell
hydrostat skeleton a skelet system compos of fluid held under pressur in a close bodi compartment; the main skeleton of most cnidarians, flatworms, nematodes, and annelids.
a skelet system compos of fluid held under pressur in a close bodi compartment; the main skeleton of most cnidarians, flatworms, nematodes, and annelids. hydrostat skeleton
incus the second of three bone in the middl ear of mammals; also call the anvil.
the second of three bone in the middl ear of mammals; also call the anvil. incus
inner ear one of three main region of the vertebr ear; includ the cochlea (which in turn contain the organ of corti) and the semicircular canals.
one of three main region of the vertebr ear; includ the cochlea (which in turn contain the organ of corti) and the semicircular canals. inner ear
intercal disk a special junction between cardiac muscl cell that provid direct electr coupl between the cells.
a special junction between cardiac muscl cell that provid direct electr coupl between the cells. intercal disk
iri the color part of the vertebr eye,  by the anterior portion of the choroid.
the color part of the vertebr eye,  by the anterior portion of the choroid. iri
later inhibit a process that sharpen the edg and enhanc the contrast of a perceiv imag by inhibit receptor later to those that have respond to light.
a process that sharpen the edg and enhanc the contrast of a perceiv imag by inhibit receptor later to those that have respond to light. later inhibit
later line system a mechanoreceptor system consist of a seri of pore and receptor unit along the side of the bodi in fish and aquat amphibians; detect water movement made by the anim itself and by other move objects.
a mechanoreceptor system consist of a seri of pore and receptor unit along the side of the bodi in fish and aquat amphibians; detect water movement made by the anim itself and by other move objects. later line system
len the structur in an eye that focus light ray onto the photoreceptors.
the structur in an eye that focus light ray onto the photoreceptors. len
locomot  motion from place to place.
 motion from place to place. locomot
malleus the first of three bone in the middl ear of mammals; also call the hammer.
the first of three bone in the middl ear of mammals; also call the hammer. malleus
mechanoreceptor a sensori receptor that detect physic de in the bodi environ associ with pressure, touch, stretch, motion, or sound.
a sensori receptor that detect physic de in the bodi environ associ with pressure, touch, stretch, motion, or sound. mechanoreceptor
middl ear one of three main region of the vertebr ear; in mammals, a chamber contain three small bone (the malleus, incus, and stapes) that convey vibrat from the eardrum to the oval window.
one of three main region of the vertebr ear; in mammals, a chamber contain three small bone (the malleus, incus, and stapes) that convey vibrat from the eardrum to the oval window. middl ear
motor unit a singl motor neuron and all the muscl fiber it controls.
a singl motor neuron and all the muscl fiber it controls. motor unit
myofibril a fibril collect arrang in longitudin bundl in muscl cell (fibers); compos of thin filament of actin and a regulatori protein and thick filament of myosin.
a fibril collect arrang in longitudin bundl in muscl cell (fibers); compos of thin filament of actin and a regulatori protein and thick filament of myosin. myofibril
myoglobin an oxygen-storing, pigment protein in muscl cells.
an oxygen-storing, pigment protein in muscl cells. myoglobin
nociceptor a sensori receptor that respond to noxious or pain stimuli; also call a pain receptor.
a sensori receptor that respond to noxious or pain stimuli; also call a pain receptor. nociceptor
odor a molecul that can be detect by sensori receptor of the olfactori system.
a molecul that can be detect by sensori receptor of the olfactori system. odor
olfact the sens of smell.
the sens of smell. olfact
ommatidium one of the facet of the compound eye of arthropod and some polychaet worms.
one of the facet of the compound eye of arthropod and some polychaet worms. ommatidium
opsin a membran protein bound to a light-absorb pigment molecule.
a membran protein bound to a light-absorb pigment molecule. opsin
optic chiasm the place where the two optic nerv meet and where the sensat from the left visual field of both eye are transmit to the right side of the brain and the sensat from the right visual field of both eye are transmit to the left side of the brain.
the place where the two optic nerv meet and where the sensat from the left visual field of both eye are transmit to the right side of the brain and the sensat from the right visual field of both eye are transmit to the left side of the brain. optic chiasm
organ of corti the actual hear organ of the vertebr ear, locat in the floor of the cochlear duct in the inner ear; contain the receptor cell (hair cells) of the ear.
the actual hear organ of the vertebr ear, locat in the floor of the cochlear duct in the inner ear; contain the receptor cell (hair cells) of the ear. organ of corti
outer ear one of three main region of the ear in reptil (includ birds) and mammals; made up of the auditori canal and, in mani bird and mammals, the pinna.
one of three main region of the ear in reptil (includ birds) and mammals; made up of the auditori canal and, in mani bird and mammals, the pinna. outer ear
oval window in the vertebr ear, a membrane-cov gap in the skull bone, through which sound wave pass from the middl ear to the inner ear.
in the vertebr ear, a membrane-cov gap in the skull bone, through which sound wave pass from the middl ear to the inner ear. oval window
pain receptor a sensori receptor that respond to noxious or pain stimuli; also call a nociceptor.
a sensori receptor that respond to noxious or pain stimuli; also call a nociceptor. pain receptor
percept the interpret of sensori system input by the brain.
the interpret of sensori system input by the brain. percept
photoreceptor an electromagnet receptor that detect the radiat known as visibl light.
an electromagnet receptor that detect the radiat known as visibl light. photoreceptor
primari visual cortex the destin in the occipit lobe of the cerebrum for most of the axon from the later genicul nuclei.
the destin in the occipit lobe of the cerebrum for most of the axon from the later genicul nuclei. primari visual cortex
pupil the open in the iris, which admit light into the interior of the vertebr eye. muscl in the iri regul it size.
the open in the iris, which admit light into the interior of the vertebr eye. muscl in the iri regul it size. pupil
receptor potenti an initi respons of a receptor cell to a stimulus, consist of a chang in voltag across the receptor membran proport to the stimulus strength. the intens of the [this] determin the frequenc of action potenti travel to the nervous system.
an initi respons of a receptor cell to a stimulus, consist of a chang in voltag across the receptor membran proport to the stimulus strength. the intens of the [this] determin the frequenc of action potenti travel to the nervous system. receptor potenti
recruit the process of progress increas the tension of a muscl by  more and more of the motor neuron control the muscle.
the process of progress increas the tension of a muscl by  more and more of the motor neuron control the muscle. recruit
retina the innermost layer of the vertebr eye, contain photoreceptor cell (rod and cones) and neurons; transmit imag  by the len to the brain via the optic nerve.
the innermost layer of the vertebr eye, contain photoreceptor cell (rod and cones) and neurons; transmit imag  by the len to the brain via the optic nerve. retina
retin the light-absorb pigment in rod and cone of the vertebr eye.
the light-absorb pigment in rod and cone of the vertebr eye. retin
rhodopsin a visual pigment consist of retin and opsin. when [this] absorb light, the retin chang shape and dissoci from the opsin, after which it is convert back to it origin .
a visual pigment consist of retin and opsin. when [this] absorb light, the retin chang shape and dissoci from the opsin, after which it is convert back to it origin . rhodopsin
rod a rodlik cell in the retina of the vertebr eye, sensit to low light intensity.
a rodlik cell in the retina of the vertebr eye, sensit to low light intensity. rod
round window an open in the bone surround the cochlea. movement of the membran behind this open permit vibrat to be transmit through the oval window into the cochlea.
an open in the bone surround the cochlea. movement of the membran behind this open permit vibrat to be transmit through the oval window into the cochlea. round window
sarcomer the fundamental, repeat unit of striat muscle, delimit by the z lines.
the fundamental, repeat unit of striat muscle, delimit by the z lines. sarcomer
sarcoplasm reticulum (sr) a special endoplasm reticulum that regul the calcium concentr in the cytosol of muscl cells.
a special endoplasm reticulum that regul the calcium concentr in the cytosol of muscl cells. sarcoplasm reticulum (sr)
sclera a tough, white outer layer of connect tissu that  the globe of the vertebr eye.
a tough, white outer layer of connect tissu that  the globe of the vertebr eye. sclera
semicircular canal a three-part chamber of the inner ear that function in maintain equilibrium.
a three-part chamber of the inner ear that function in maintain equilibrium. semicircular canal
sensori adapt the tendenc of sensori neuron to becom less sensit when they are stimul repeatedly.
the tendenc of sensori neuron to becom less sensit when they are stimul repeatedly. sensori adapt
sensori recept the detect of the energi of a stimulus by sensori cells.
the detect of the energi of a stimulus by sensori cells. sensori recept
sensori receptor an organ, cell, or structur within a cell that respond to specif stimuli from an organ extern or intern environment.
an organ, cell, or structur within a cell that respond to specif stimuli from an organ extern or intern environment. sensori receptor
sensori transduct the convers of stimulus energi to a chang in the membran potenti of a sensori receptor cell.
the convers of stimulus energi to a chang in the membran potenti of a sensori receptor cell. sensori transduct
single-len eye the camera-lik eye found in some jellies, polychaetes, spiders, and mani molluscs.
the camera-lik eye found in some jellies, polychaetes, spiders, and mani molluscs. single-len eye
skelet muscl muscl that is general respons for the voluntari movement of the body; one type of striat muscle.
muscl that is general respons for the voluntari movement of the body; one type of striat muscle. skelet muscl
sliding-fila model the theori explain how muscl contracts, base on chang within a sarcomere, the basic unit of muscl organization. accord to this model, thin (actin) filament slide across thick (myosin) filaments, shorten the sarcomere. the shorten of all sarcomer in a myofibril shorten the entir myofibril.
the theori explain how muscl contracts, base on chang within a sarcomere, the basic unit of muscl organization. accord to this model, thin (actin) filament slide across thick (myosin) filaments, shorten the sarcomere. the shorten of all sarcomer in a myofibril shorten the entir myofibril. sliding-fila model
slow-twitch fiber a muscl fiber that can sustain long contractions.
a muscl fiber that can sustain long contractions. slow-twitch fiber
smooth muscl a type of muscl lack the striation of skelet and cardiac muscl becaus of the uni distribut of myosin filament in the cell; respons for involuntari bodi ities.
a type of muscl lack the striation of skelet and cardiac muscl becaus of the uni distribut of myosin filament in the cell; respons for involuntari bodi ities. smooth muscl
stape the third of three bone in the middl ear of mammals; also call the stirrup.
the third of three bone in the middl ear of mammals; also call the stirrup. stape
statocyst a type of mechanoreceptor that function in equilibrium in invertebr by use of statoliths, which stimul hair cell in relat to gravity.
a type of mechanoreceptor that function in equilibrium in invertebr by use of statoliths, which stimul hair cell in relat to gravity. statocyst
statolith (1) in plants, a special plastid that contain dens starch grain and may play a role in detect gravity. (2) in invertebrates, a grain or other dens granul that settl in respons to graviti and is found in sensori organ that function in equilibrium.
(1) in plants, a special plastid that contain dens starch grain and may play a role in detect gravity. (2) in invertebrates, a grain or other dens granul that settl in respons to graviti and is found in sensori organ that function in equilibrium. statolith
striat muscl muscl in which the regular arrang of filament creat a pattern of light and dark bands.
muscl in which the regular arrang of filament creat a pattern of light and dark bands. striat muscl
tastant ani chemic that stimul the sensori receptor in a tast bud.
ani chemic that stimul the sensori receptor in a tast bud. tastant
tast bud a collect of modifi epitheli cell on the tongu or in the mouth that are receptor for tast in mammals.
a collect of modifi epitheli cell on the tongu or in the mouth that are receptor for tast in mammals. tast bud
tetanus the maximal, sustain contract of a skelet muscle, caus by a veri high frequenc of action potenti elicit by continu stimulation.
the maximal, sustain contract of a skelet muscle, caus by a veri high frequenc of action potenti elicit by continu stimulation. tetanus
thermoreceptor a receptor stimul by either heat or cold.
a receptor stimul by either heat or cold. thermoreceptor
thick filament a filament compos of stagger array of myosin molecules; a compon of myofibril in muscl fibers.
a filament compos of stagger array of myosin molecules; a compon of myofibril in muscl fibers. thick filament
thin filament a filament consist of two strand of actin and two strand of regulatori protein coil around one another; a compon of myofibril in muscl fibers.
a filament consist of two strand of actin and two strand of regulatori protein coil around one another; a compon of myofibril in muscl fibers. thin filament
transmiss the passag of a nerv impuls along axons.
the passag of a nerv impuls along axons. transmiss
transvers (t) tubul an infold of the plasma membran of skelet muscl cells.
an infold of the plasma membran of skelet muscl cells. transvers (t) tubul
tropomyosin the regulatori protein that  the myosin- site on actin molecules.
the regulatori protein that  the myosin- site on actin molecules. tropomyosin
troponin complex the regulatori protein that control the posit of tropomyosin on the thin filament.
the regulatori protein that control the posit of tropomyosin on the thin filament. troponin complex
tympan membran anoth name for the eardrum, the membran between the outer and middl ear.
anoth name for the eardrum, the membran between the outer and middl ear. tympan membran
utricl in the vertebr ear, a chamber in the vestibul behind the oval window that open into the three semicircular canals.
in the vertebr ear, a chamber in the vestibul behind the oval window that open into the three semicircular canals. utricl
vitreous humor the jellylik materi that fill the posterior caviti of the vertebr eye.
the jellylik materi that fill the posterior caviti of the vertebr eye. vitreous humor
alveolus one of the dead-end, multilob air sac where gas exchang occur in a mammalian lung.
one of the dead-end, multilob air sac where gas exchang occur in a mammalian lung. alveolus
amphibian member of the tetrapod class amphibia, includ salamanders, frogs, and caecilians.
member of the tetrapod class amphibia, includ salamanders, frogs, and caecilians. amphibian
arteriol a vessel that convey blood between an arteri and a capillari bed.
a vessel that convey blood between an arteri and a capillari bed. arteriol
arteri a vessel that carri blood away from the heart to organ throughout the body.
a vessel that carri blood away from the heart to organ throughout the body. arteri
atrioventricular (av) node a region of special heart muscl tissu between the left and right atria where electr impuls are delay for about 0.1 second befor spread to both ventricl and caus them to contract.
a region of special heart muscl tissu between the left and right atria where electr impuls are delay for about 0.1 second befor spread to both ventricl and caus them to contract. atrioventricular (av) node
atrioventricular (av) valv a heart valv locat between each atrium and ventricl that prevent a backflow of blood when the ventricl contracts.
a heart valv locat between each atrium and ventricl that prevent a backflow of blood when the ventricl contracts. atrioventricular (av) valv
atrium a chamber of the vertebr heart that receiv blood from the vein and transfer blood to a ventricle.
a chamber of the vertebr heart that receiv blood from the vein and transfer blood to a ventricle. atrium
bohr shift a lower of the affin of hemoglobin for oxygen, caus by a drop in ph. it facilit the releas of oxygen from hemoglobin in the vicin of  tissues.
a lower of the affin of hemoglobin for oxygen, caus by a drop in ph. it facilit the releas of oxygen from hemoglobin in the vicin of  tissues. bohr shift
breath ventil of the lung through altern inhal and exhalation.
ventil of the lung through altern inhal and exhalation. breath
breath control center a brain center that direct the  of organ involv in breathing.
a brain center that direct the  of organ involv in breathing. breath control center
bronchiol a fine branch of the bronchi that transport air to alveoli.
a fine branch of the bronchi that transport air to alveoli. bronchiol
bronchus one of a pair of breath tube that branch from the trachea into the lungs.
one of a pair of breath tube that branch from the trachea into the lungs. bronchus
capillari a microscop blood vessel that penetr the tissu and consist of a singl layer of endotheli cell that allow exchang between the blood and interstiti fluid.
a microscop blood vessel that penetr the tissu and consist of a singl layer of endotheli cell that allow exchang between the blood and interstiti fluid. capillari
capillari bed a network of capillari in a tissu or organ.
a network of capillari in a tissu or organ. capillari bed
cardiac cycl the altern contract and relax of the heart.
the altern contract and relax of the heart. cardiac cycl
cardiac output the volum of blood pump per minut by each ventricl of the heart.
the volum of blood pump per minut by each ventricl of the heart. cardiac output
cardiovascular system a close circulatori system with a heart and branch network of arteries, capillaries, and veins. the system is characterist of vertebrates.
a close circulatori system with a heart and branch network of arteries, capillaries, and veins. the system is characterist of vertebrates. cardiovascular system
close circulatori system a circulatori system in which blood is confin to vessel and is kept separ from the interstiti fluid.
a circulatori system in which blood is confin to vessel and is kept separ from the interstiti fluid. close circulatori system
diaphragm (1) a sheet of muscl that  the bottom wall of the thorac caviti in mammals. contract of the [this] pull air into the lungs. (2) a dome-shap rubber cup fit into the upper portion of the vagina befor sexual intercourse. it serv as a physic barrier to the passag of sperm into the uterus.
(1) a sheet of muscl that  the bottom wall of the thorac caviti in mammals. contract of the [this] pull air into the lungs. (2) a dome-shap rubber cup fit into the upper portion of the vagina befor sexual intercourse. it serv as a physic barrier to the passag of sperm into the uterus. diaphragm
diastol the stage of the cardiac cycl in which a heart chamber is relax and fill with blood.
the stage of the cardiac cycl in which a heart chamber is relax and fill with blood. diastol
diastol pressur blood pressur in the arteri when the ventricl are relaxed.
blood pressur in the arteri when the ventricl are relaxed. diastol pressur
doubl circul a circulatori system consist of separ pulmonari and system circuits, in which blood pass through the heart after complet each circuit.
a circulatori system consist of separ pulmonari and system circuits, in which blood pass through the heart after complet each circuit. doubl circul
electrocardiogram (ecg or ekg) a record of the electr impuls that travel through heart muscl dure the cardiac cycle.
a record of the electr impuls that travel through heart muscl dure the cardiac cycle. electrocardiogram (ecg or ekg)
endothelin a peptid produc by a blood vessel endothelium that caus the vessel to constrict.
a peptid produc by a blood vessel endothelium that caus the vessel to constrict. endothelin
endothelium the simpl squamous layer of cell line the lumen of blood vessels.
the simpl squamous layer of cell line the lumen of blood vessels. endothelium
erythrocyt a blood cell that contain hemoglobin, which transport oxygen; also call a red blood cell.
a blood cell that contain hemoglobin, which transport oxygen; also call a red blood cell. erythrocyt
erythropoietin (epo) a hormon that stimul the product of erythrocytes. it is secret by the kidney when bodi tissu do not receiv enough oxygen.
a hormon that stimul the product of erythrocytes. it is secret by the kidney when bodi tissu do not receiv enough oxygen. erythropoietin (epo)
fibrin the   of the blood-clot protein fibrinogen. [this] aggreg into thread that  the fabric of the clot.
the   of the blood-clot protein fibrinogen. [this] aggreg into thread that  the fabric of the clot. fibrin
gas exchang the uptak of molecular oxygen from the environ and the discharg of carbon dioxid to the environment.
the uptak of molecular oxygen from the environ and the discharg of carbon dioxid to the environment. gas exchang
heart attack the damag or death of cardiac muscl tissu  from prolong ag of one or more coronari arteries.
the damag or death of cardiac muscl tissu  from prolong ag of one or more coronari arteries. heart attack
heart murmur a hiss sound that most often  from blood squirt backward through a leaki valv in the heart.
a hiss sound that most often  from blood squirt backward through a leaki valv in the heart. heart murmur
heart rate the frequenc of heart contraction.
the frequenc of heart contraction. heart rate
hemolymph in invertebr with an open circulatori system, the bodi fluid that bath tissues.
in invertebr with an open circulatori system, the bodi fluid that bath tissues. hemolymph
high-dens lipoprotein (hdl) a particl in the blood made up of cholesterol and other lipid surround by a singl layer of phospholipid in which protein are embedded. [this] carri less cholesterol than a relat lipoprotein, ldl, and high [this] level in the blood may be correl with a decreas risk of blood vessel age.
a particl in the blood made up of cholesterol and other lipid surround by a singl layer of phospholipid in which protein are embedded. [this] carri less cholesterol than a relat lipoprotein, ldl, and high [this] level in the blood may be correl with a decreas risk of blood vessel age. high-dens lipoprotein (hdl)
hypertens a disord in which blood pressur remain abnorm high.
a disord in which blood pressur remain abnorm high. hypertens
interstiti fluid the fluid fill the space between cell in an animal.
the fluid fill the space between cell in an animal. interstiti fluid
leukocyt a blood cell that function in fight infections; also call a white blood cell.
a blood cell that function in fight infections; also call a white blood cell. leukocyt
lung an infold respiratori surfac of a terrestri vertebrate, land snail, or spider that connect to the atmospher by narrow tubes.
an infold respiratori surfac of a terrestri vertebrate, land snail, or spider that connect to the atmospher by narrow tubes. lung
lymph the colorless fluid, deriv from interstiti fluid, in the lymphat system of vertebrates.
the colorless fluid, deriv from interstiti fluid, in the lymphat system of vertebrates. lymph
lymph node an organ locat along a lymph vessel. [these] filter lymph and contain cell that attack virus and bacteria.
an organ locat along a lymph vessel. [these] filter lymph and contain cell that attack virus and bacteria. lymph node
lymphat system a system of vessel and nodes, separ from the circulatori system, that return fluid, proteins, and cell to the blood.
a system of vessel and nodes, separ from the circulatori system, that return fluid, proteins, and cell to the blood. lymphat system
negat pressur breath a breath system in which air is pull into the lungs.
a breath system in which air is pull into the lungs. negat pressur breath
open circulatori system a circulatori system in which fluid call hemolymph bath the tissu and organ direct and there is no distinct between the circul fluid and the interstiti fluid.
a circulatori system in which fluid call hemolymph bath the tissu and organ direct and there is no distinct between the circul fluid and the interstiti fluid. open circulatori system
partial pressur the pressur exert by a particular gas in a mixtur of gase (for instance, the pressur exert by oxygen in air).
the pressur exert by a particular gas in a mixtur of gase (for instance, the pressur exert by oxygen in air). partial pressur
plasma the liquid matrix of blood in which the cell are suspended.
the liquid matrix of blood in which the cell are suspended. plasma
platelet a pinched-off cytoplasm fragment of a special bone marrow cell. [these] circul in the blood and are import in blood clotting.
a pinched-off cytoplasm fragment of a special bone marrow cell. [these] circul in the blood and are import in blood clotting. platelet
posit pressur breath a breath system in which air is forc into the lungs.
a breath system in which air is forc into the lungs. posit pressur breath
pulmocutan circuit a branch of the circulatori system in mani amphibian that suppli the lung and skin.
a branch of the circulatori system in mani amphibian that suppli the lung and skin. pulmocutan circuit
pulmonari circuit the branch of the circulatori system that suppli the lungs.
the branch of the circulatori system that suppli the lungs. pulmonari circuit
puls the rhythmic bulg of the arteri wall with each heartbeat.
the rhythmic bulg of the arteri wall with each heartbeat. puls
residu volum the amount of air that remain in the lung after forc exhalation.
the amount of air that remain in the lung after forc exhalation. residu volum
respiratori pigment a protein that transport oxygen in blood or hemolymph.
a protein that transport oxygen in blood or hemolymph. respiratori pigment
semilunar valv a valv locat at each exit of the heart, where the aorta leav the left ventricl and the pulmonari arteri leav the right ventricle.
a valv locat at each exit of the heart, where the aorta leav the left ventricl and the pulmonari arteri leav the right ventricle. semilunar valv
singl circul a circulatori system consist of a singl pump and circuit, in which blood pass from the site of gas exchang to the rest of the bodi befor return to the heart.
a circulatori system consist of a singl pump and circuit, in which blood pass from the site of gas exchang to the rest of the bodi befor return to the heart. singl circul
sinoatri (sa) node a region in the right atrium of the heart that set the rate and time at which all cardiac muscl cell contract; the pacemaker.
a region in the right atrium of the heart that set the rate and time at which all cardiac muscl cell contract; the pacemaker. sinoatri (sa) node
stroke the death of nervous tissu in the brain, usual  from ruptur or ag of arteri in the head.
the death of nervous tissu in the brain, usual  from ruptur or ag of arteri in the head. stroke
stroke volum the volum of blood pump by a heart ventricl in a singl contraction.
the volum of blood pump by a heart ventricl in a singl contraction. stroke volum
surfact a substanc secret by alveoli that decreas surfac tension in the fluid that coat the alveoli.
a substanc secret by alveoli that decreas surfac tension in the fluid that coat the alveoli. surfact
system circuit the branch of the circulatori system that suppli all bodi organ except those involv in gas exchange.
the branch of the circulatori system that suppli all bodi organ except those involv in gas exchange. system circuit
systol the stage of the cardiac cycl in which a heart chamber contract and pump blood.
the stage of the cardiac cycl in which a heart chamber contract and pump blood. systol
systol pressur blood pressur in the arteri dure contract of the ventricles.
blood pressur in the arteri dure contract of the ventricles. systol pressur
thrombus a fibrin-contain clot that  in a blood vessel and  the flow of blood.
a fibrin-contain clot that  in a blood vessel and  the flow of blood. thrombus
tidal volum the volum of air a mammal inhal and exhal with each breath.
the volum of air a mammal inhal and exhal with each breath. tidal volum
tracheal system in insects, a system of branched, air-fil tube that extend throughout the bodi and carri oxygen direct to cells.
in insects, a system of branched, air-fil tube that extend throughout the bodi and carri oxygen direct to cells. tracheal system
ventil the flow of air or water over a respiratori surface.
the flow of air or water over a respiratori surface. ventil
venul a vessel that convey blood between a capillari bed and a vein.
a vessel that convey blood between a capillari bed and a vein. venul
vital capac the maximum volum of air that a mammal can inhal and exhal with each breath.
the maximum volum of air that a mammal can inhal and exhal with each breath. vital capac
vocal cord one of a pair of band of elast tissu in the larynx. air rush past the tens [these] make them vibrate, produc sounds.
one of a pair of band of elast tissu in the larynx. air rush past the tens [these] make them vibrate, produc sounds. vocal cord
abort the termin of a pregnanc in progress.
the termin of a pregnanc in progress. abort
assist reproduct technolog a fertil procedur that general involv surgic remov egg (secondari oocytes) from a woman ovari after hormon stimulation, fertil the eggs, and return them to the woman body.
a fertil procedur that general involv surgic remov egg (secondari oocytes) from a woman ovari after hormon stimulation, fertil the eggs, and return them to the woman body. assist reproduct technolog
barrier method contracept that reli on a physic barrier to  the passag of sperm. exampl includ condom and diaphragms.
contracept that reli on a physic barrier to  the passag of sperm. exampl includ condom and diaphragms. barrier method
birth control pill a chemic contracept that inhibit ovulation, retard follicular development, or alter a woman cervic mucus to prevent sperm from enter the uterus.
a chemic contracept that inhibit ovulation, retard follicular development, or alter a woman cervic mucus to prevent sperm from enter the uterus. birth control pill
blastocyst the blastula stage of mammalian embryon development, consist of an inner cell mass, a cavity, and an outer layer, the trophoblast. in humans, the blastocyst  one week after fertilization.
the blastula stage of mammalian embryon development, consist of an inner cell mass, a cavity, and an outer layer, the trophoblast. in humans, the blastocyst  one week after fertilization. blastocyst
bud asexu reproduct in which outgrowth from the parent  and pinch off to live independ or els remain attach to eventu  extens colonies.
asexu reproduct in which outgrowth from the parent  and pinch off to live independ or els remain attach to eventu  extens colonies. bud
cervix the neck of the uterus, which open into the vagina.
the neck of the uterus, which open into the vagina. cervix
clitori an organ at the upper intersect of the labia minora that engorg with blood and becom erect dure sexual arousal.
an organ at the upper intersect of the labia minora that engorg with blood and becom erect dure sexual arousal. clitori
cloaca a common open for the digestive, urinary, and reproduct tract found in mani nonmammalian vertebr but in few mammals.
a common open for the digestive, urinary, and reproduct tract found in mani nonmammalian vertebr but in few mammals. cloaca
coitus the insert of a peni into a vagina; also call sexual intercourse.
the insert of a peni into a vagina; also call sexual intercourse. coitus
concept the fertil of an egg by a sperm in humans.
the fertil of an egg by a sperm in humans. concept
condom a thin, latex rubber or natur membran sheath that fit over the peni to collect semen.
a thin, latex rubber or natur membran sheath that fit over the peni to collect semen. condom
contracept the deliber prevent of pregnancy.
the deliber prevent of pregnancy. contracept
corpus luteum a secret tissu in the ovari that  from the collaps follicl after ovul and produc progesterone.
a secret tissu in the ovari that  from the collaps follicl after ovul and produc progesterone. corpus luteum
ectop occur in an abnorm location.
occur in an abnorm location. ectop
egg the femal gamete.
the femal gamete. egg
ejacul the propuls of sperm from the epididymi through the muscular vas deferens, ejaculatori duct, and urethra.
the propuls of sperm from the epididymi through the muscular vas deferens, ejaculatori duct, and urethra. ejacul
ejaculatori duct in mammals, the short section of the ejaculatori rout  by the converg of the vas deferen and a duct from the semin vesicle. the ejaculatori duct transport sperm from the vas deferen to the urethra.
in mammals, the short section of the ejaculatori rout  by the converg of the vas deferen and a duct from the semin vesicle. the ejaculatori duct transport sperm from the vas deferen to the urethra. ejaculatori duct
endometriosi the condit  from the presenc of endometri tissu outsid of the uterus.
the condit  from the presenc of endometri tissu outsid of the uterus. endometriosi
endometrium the inner line of the uterus, which is rich suppli with blood vessels.
the inner line of the uterus, which is rich suppli with blood vessels. endometrium
epididymi a coil tubul locat adjac to the mammalian testi where sperm are stored.
a coil tubul locat adjac to the mammalian testi where sperm are stored. epididymi
estrous cycl a reproduct cycl characterist of femal mammal except human and certain other primates, in which the nonpregn endometrium is reabsorb rather than shed, and sexual respons occur onli dure mid-cycl at estrus.
a reproduct cycl characterist of femal mammal except human and certain other primates, in which the nonpregn endometrium is reabsorb rather than shed, and sexual respons occur onli dure mid-cycl at estrus. estrous cycl
eutherian placent mammal; mammal whose young complet their embryon develop within the uterus, join to the mother by the placenta.
placent mammal; mammal whose young complet their embryon develop within the uterus, join to the mother by the placenta. eutherian
extern fertil the fusion of gamet that parent have discharg into the environment.
the fusion of gamet that parent have discharg into the environment. extern fertil
fertil (1) the union of haploid gamet to produc a diploid zygote. (2) the addit of miner nutrient to the soil.
(1) the union of haploid gamet to produc a diploid zygote. (2) the addit of miner nutrient to the soil. fertil
fetus a develop mammal that has all the major structur of an adult. in humans, the fetal stage last from the 9th week of gestat until birth.
a develop mammal that has all the major structur of an adult. in humans, the fetal stage last from the 9th week of gestat until birth. fetus
fission the separ of an organ into two or more individu of approxim equal size.
the separ of an organ into two or more individu of approxim equal size. fission
follicl a microscop structur in the ovari that contain the develop oocyt and secret estrogens.
a microscop structur in the ovari that contain the develop oocyt and secret estrogens. follicl
follicular phase that part of the ovarian cycl dure which follicl are grow and oocyt maturing.
that part of the ovarian cycl dure which follicl are grow and oocyt maturing. follicular phase
fragment a mean of asexu reproduct wherebi a singl parent break into part that regener into whole new individuals.
a mean of asexu reproduct wherebi a singl parent break into part that regener into whole new individuals. fragment
gametogenesi the process by which gamet are produced.
the process by which gamet are produced. gametogenesi
gestat pregnancy; the state of carri develop young within the femal reproduct tract.
pregnancy; the state of carri develop young within the femal reproduct tract. gestat
glan the round structur at the tip of the clitori or peni that is involv in sexual arousal.
the round structur at the tip of the clitori or peni that is involv in sexual arousal. glan
gonad the male and femal sex organs; the gamete-produc organ in most animals.
the male and femal sex organs; the gamete-produc organ in most animals. gonad
hermaphrodit a condit in which an individu has both femal and male gonad and function as both a male and femal in sexual reproduct by produc both sperm and eggs.
a condit in which an individu has both femal and male gonad and function as both a male and femal in sexual reproduct by produc both sperm and eggs. hermaphrodit
hymen a thin membran that part cover the vagin open in the human female. the hymen is ruptur by sexual intercours or other vigor ity.
a thin membran that part cover the vagin open in the human female. the hymen is ruptur by sexual intercours or other vigor ity. hymen
in vitro fertil (ivf) fertil of oocyt in laboratori contain follow by artifici implant of the earli embryo in the mother uterus.
fertil of oocyt in laboratori contain follow by artifici implant of the earli embryo in the mother uterus. in vitro fertil (ivf)
inhibin a hormon produc in the male and femal gonad that function in part by regul the function of the anterior pituitari by negat feedback.
a hormon produc in the male and femal gonad that function in part by regul the function of the anterior pituitari by negat feedback. inhibin
intern fertil the fusion of egg and sperm within the femal reproduct tract. the sperm are typic deposit in or near the tract.
the fusion of egg and sperm within the femal reproduct tract. the sperm are typic deposit in or near the tract. intern fertil
labia majora a pair of thick, fatti ridg that enclos and protect the rest of the vulva.
a pair of thick, fatti ridg that enclos and protect the rest of the vulva. labia majora
labia minora a pair of slender skin fold that surround the open of the vagina and urethra.
a pair of slender skin fold that surround the open of the vagina and urethra. labia minora
labor a seri of strong, rhythmic contract of the uterus that expel a babi out of the uterus and vagina dure childbirth.
a seri of strong, rhythmic contract of the uterus that expel a babi out of the uterus and vagina dure childbirth. labor
lactat the continu product of milk from the mammari glands.
the continu product of milk from the mammari glands. lactat
leydig cell a cell that produc testosteron and other androgen and is locat between the seminifer tubul of the testes.
a cell that produc testosteron and other androgen and is locat between the seminifer tubul of the testes. leydig cell
luteal phase that portion of the ovarian cycl dure which endocrin cell of the corpus luteum secret femal hormones.
that portion of the ovarian cycl dure which endocrin cell of the corpus luteum secret femal hormones. luteal phase
lutein hormon (lh) a tropic hormon that is produc and secret by the anterior pituitari and that stimul ovul in femal and androgen product in males.
a tropic hormon that is produc and secret by the anterior pituitari and that stimul ovul in femal and androgen product in males. lutein hormon (lh)
mammari gland exocrin gland that secret milk to nourish the young. these gland are characterist of mammals.
exocrin gland that secret milk to nourish the young. these gland are characterist of mammals. mammari gland
menopaus the cessat of ovul and menstruat mark the end of a human femal reproduct years.
the cessat of ovul and menstruat mark the end of a human femal reproduct years. menopaus
menstrual cycl in human and certain other primates, a type of reproduct cycl in which the nonpregn endometrium is shed through the cervix into the vagina.
in human and certain other primates, a type of reproduct cycl in which the nonpregn endometrium is shed through the cervix into the vagina. menstrual cycl
menstrual flow phase that portion of the uterin (menstrual) cycl when menstrual bleed occurs.
that portion of the uterin (menstrual) cycl when menstrual bleed occurs. menstrual flow phase
menstruat the shed of portion of the endometrium dure a uterin (menstrual) cycle.
the shed of portion of the endometrium dure a uterin (menstrual) cycle. menstruat
myotonia increas muscl tension, characterist of sexual arous in certain human tissues.
increas muscl tension, characterist of sexual arous in certain human tissues. myotonia
natur famili plan a  of contracept that reli on refrain from sexual intercours when concept is most like to occur; also call the rhythm method.
a  of contracept that reli on refrain from sexual intercours when concept is most like to occur; also call the rhythm method. natur famili plan
oocyt a cell in the femal reproduct system that differenti to  an egg.
a cell in the femal reproduct system that differenti to  an egg. oocyt
oogenesi the process in the ovari that  in the product of femal gametes.
the process in the ovari that  in the product of femal gametes. oogenesi
oogonium a cell that divid mitot to  oocytes.
a cell that divid mitot to  oocytes. oogonium
organogenesi the process in which organ rudiment develop from the three germ layer after gastrulation.
the process in which organ rudiment develop from the three germ layer after gastrulation. organogenesi
orgasm rhythmic, involuntari contract of certain reproduct structur in both sex dure the human sexual respons cycle.
rhythmic, involuntari contract of certain reproduct structur in both sex dure the human sexual respons cycle. orgasm
ovarian cycl the cyclic recurr of the follicular phase, ovulation, and the luteal phase in the mammalian ovary, regul by hormones.
the cyclic recurr of the follicular phase, ovulation, and the luteal phase in the mammalian ovary, regul by hormones. ovarian cycl
ovari (1) in flowers, the portion of a carpel in which the egg-contain ovul develop. (2) in animals, the structur that produc femal gamet and reproduct hormones.
(1) in flowers, the portion of a carpel in which the egg-contain ovul develop. (2) in animals, the structur that produc femal gamet and reproduct hormones. ovari
oviduct a tube pass from the ovari to the vagina in invertebr or to the uterus in vertebrates, where it is also known as a fallopian tube.
a tube pass from the ovari to the vagina in invertebr or to the uterus in vertebrates, where it is also known as a fallopian tube. oviduct
ovul the releas of an egg from an ovary. in humans, an ovarian follicl releas an egg dure each uterin (menstrual) cycle.
the releas of an egg from an ovary. in humans, an ovarian follicl releas an egg dure each uterin (menstrual) cycle. ovul
parthenogenesi asexu reproduct in which femal produc offspr from unfertil eggs.
asexu reproduct in which femal produc offspr from unfertil eggs. parthenogenesi
placenta a structur in the pregnant uterus for nourish a vivipar fetus with the mother blood supply;  from the uterin line and embryon membranes.
a structur in the pregnant uterus for nourish a vivipar fetus with the mother blood supply;  from the uterin line and embryon membranes. placenta
pregnanc the condit of carri one or more embryo in the uterus.
the condit of carri one or more embryo in the uterus. pregnanc
prepuc a fold of skin cover the head of the clitori or penis.
a fold of skin cover the head of the clitori or penis. prepuc
primari oocyt an oocyt prior to complet of meiosi i.
an oocyt prior to complet of meiosi i. primari oocyt
progestin ani steroid hormon with progesterone-lik ity.
ani steroid hormon with progesterone-lik ity. progestin
prolif phase that portion of the uterin (menstrual) cycl when the endometrium regener and thickens.
that portion of the uterin (menstrual) cycl when the endometrium regener and thickens. prolif phase
rhythm method a  of contracept that reli on refrain from sexual intercours when concept is most like to occur; also call natur famili planning.
a  of contracept that reli on refrain from sexual intercours when concept is most like to occur; also call natur famili planning. rhythm method
scrotum a pouch of skin outsid the abdomen that hous the testes; function in maintain the test at the lower temperatur requir for spermatogenesis.
a pouch of skin outsid the abdomen that hous the testes; function in maintain the test at the lower temperatur requir for spermatogenesis. scrotum
secondari oocyt an oocyt that has complet the first of the two meiotic divisions.
an oocyt that has complet the first of the two meiotic divisions. secondari oocyt
secretori phase that portion of the uterin (menstrual) cycl when the endometrium continu to thicken, becom more vascularized, and develop gland that secret a fluid rich in glycogen.
that portion of the uterin (menstrual) cycl when the endometrium continu to thicken, becom more vascularized, and develop gland that secret a fluid rich in glycogen. secretori phase
semin vesicl a gland in male that secret a fluid compon of semen that lubric and nourish sperm.
a gland in male that secret a fluid compon of semen that lubric and nourish sperm. semin vesicl
seminifer tubul a high coil tube in the testi in which sperm are produced.
a high coil tube in the testi in which sperm are produced. seminifer tubul
sperm the male gamete.
the male gamete. sperm
spermatheca in mani insects, a sac in the femal reproduct system where sperm are stored.
in mani insects, a sac in the femal reproduct system where sperm are stored. spermatheca
spermatogenesi the continu and prolif product of matur sperm cell in the testis.
the continu and prolif product of matur sperm cell in the testis. spermatogenesi
spermatogonium a cell that divid mitot to  spermatocytes.
a cell that divid mitot to  spermatocytes. spermatogonium
testi the male reproduct organ, or gonad, in which sperm and reproduct hormon are produced.
the male reproduct organ, or gonad, in which sperm and reproduct hormon are produced. testi
trimest in human development, one of three 3 month-long period of pregnancy.
in human development, one of three 3 month-long period of pregnancy. trimest
trophoblast the outer epithelium of a mammalian blastocyst. it  the fetal part of the placenta, support embryon develop but not  part of the embryo proper.
the outer epithelium of a mammalian blastocyst. it  the fetal part of the placenta, support embryon develop but not  part of the embryo proper. trophoblast
tubal ligat a mean of steril in which a woman two oviduct (fallopian tubes) are tie close to prevent egg from reach the uterus. a segment of each oviduct is removed.
a mean of steril in which a woman two oviduct (fallopian tubes) are tie close to prevent egg from reach the uterus. a segment of each oviduct is removed. tubal ligat
uterin cycl the chang that occur in the uterus dure the reproduct cycl of the human female; also call the menstrual cycle.
the chang that occur in the uterus dure the reproduct cycl of the human female; also call the menstrual cycle. uterin cycl
uterus a femal organ where egg are fertil and/or develop of the young occurs.
a femal organ where egg are fertil and/or develop of the young occurs. uterus
vagina part of the femal reproduct system between the uterus and the outsid opening; the birth canal in mammals. dure copulation, the [this] accommod the male peni and receiv sperm.
part of the femal reproduct system between the uterus and the outsid opening; the birth canal in mammals. dure copulation, the [this] accommod the male peni and receiv sperm. vagina
vas deferen in mammals, the tube in the male reproduct system in which sperm travel from the epididymi to the urethra.
in mammals, the tube in the male reproduct system in which sperm travel from the epididymi to the urethra. vas deferen
vasectomi the cut and seal of each vas deferen to prevent sperm from enter the urethra.
the cut and seal of each vas deferen to prevent sperm from enter the urethra. vasectomi
vasocongest the fill of a tissu with blood, caus by increas blood flow through the arteri of that tissue.
the fill of a tissu with blood, caus by increas blood flow through the arteri of that tissue. vasocongest
vulva collect term for the femal extern genitalia.
collect term for the femal extern genitalia. vulva
biodivers hot spot a relat small area with an except concentr of endem speci and often a larg number of endang and threaten species.
a relat small area with an except concentr of endem speci and often a larg number of endang and threaten species. biodivers hot spot
biolog augment an approach to restor ecolog that use organ to add essenti materi to a degrad ecosystem.
an approach to restor ecolog that use organ to add essenti materi to a degrad ecosystem. biolog augment
conserv biolog the integr studi of ecology, evolutionari biology, physiology, molecular biology, and genet to sustain biolog divers at all levels.
the integr studi of ecology, evolutionari biology, physiology, molecular biology, and genet to sustain biolog divers at all levels. conserv biolog
ecosystem servic a function per by an ecosystem that direct or indirect benefit humans.
a function per by an ecosystem that direct or indirect benefit humans. ecosystem servic
effect popul size an estim of the size of a popul base on the number of femal and male that success breed; general smaller than the total population.
an estim of the size of a popul base on the number of femal and male that success breed; general smaller than the total population. effect popul size
endang speci a speci that is in danger of extinct throughout all or a signific portion of it range.
a speci that is in danger of extinct throughout all or a signific portion of it range. endang speci
extinct vortex a downward popul spiral in which inbreed and genet drift combin to caus a small popul to shrink and, unless the spiral is reversed, to becom extinct.
a downward popul spiral in which inbreed and genet drift combin to caus a small popul to shrink and, unless the spiral is reversed, to becom extinct. extinct vortex
introduc speci a speci move by humans, either intent or accidentally, from it nativ locat to a new geograph region; also call non-nat or exot species.
a speci move by humans, either intent or accidentally, from it nativ locat to a new geograph region; also call non-nat or exot species. introduc speci
landscap an area contain sever differ ecosystem link by exchang of energy, materials, and organisms.
an area contain sever differ ecosystem link by exchang of energy, materials, and organisms. landscap
minimum viabl popul (mvp) the smallest popul size at which a speci is abl to sustain it number and survive.
the smallest popul size at which a speci is abl to sustain it number and survive. minimum viabl popul (mvp)
movement corridor a seri of small clump or a narrow strip of qualiti habitat (usabl by organisms) that connect otherwis isol patch of qualiti habitat.
a seri of small clump or a narrow strip of qualiti habitat (usabl by organisms) that connect otherwis isol patch of qualiti habitat. movement corridor
restor ecolog appli ecolog principl in an effort to return ecosystem that have been disturb by human  to a condit as similar as possibl to their natur state.
appli ecolog principl in an effort to return ecosystem that have been disturb by human  to a condit as similar as possibl to their natur state. restor ecolog
sustain develop develop that meet the need of peopl today without limit the abil of futur generat to meet their needs.
develop that meet the need of peopl today without limit the abil of futur generat to meet their needs. sustain develop
threaten speci a speci that is consid like to becom endang in the forese future.
a speci that is consid like to becom endang in the forese future. threaten speci
zone reserv an extens region that includ area relat undisturb by human surround by area that have been chang by human  and are use for econom gain.
an extens region that includ area relat undisturb by human surround by area that have been chang by human  and are use for econom gain. zone reserv
basal angiosperm member of a clade of three early-diverg lineag of flower plants. exampl are amborella, water lilies, and star anis and it relatives.
member of a clade of three early-diverg lineag of flower plants. exampl are amborella, water lilies, and star anis and it relatives. basal angiosperm
carpel the ovule-produc reproduct organ of a flower, consist of the stigma, , and ovary.
the ovule-produc reproduct organ of a flower, consist of the stigma, , and ovary. carpel
conif member of the largest gymnosperm phylum. most conif are cone-bear trees, such as pine and firs.
member of the largest gymnosperm phylum. most conif are cone-bear trees, such as pine and firs. conif
cotyledon a seed leaf of an angiosperm embryo. some speci have one cotyledon, other two.
a seed leaf of an angiosperm embryo. some speci have one cotyledon, other two. cotyledon
cross-pollin in angiosperms, the transfer of pollen from an anther of a flower on one plant to the stigma of a flower on anoth plant of the same species.
in angiosperms, the transfer of pollen from an anther of a flower on one plant to the stigma of a flower on anoth plant of the same species. cross-pollin
dicot a term tradit use to refer to flower plant that have two embryon seed leaves, or cotyledons. recent molecular evid indic that dicot do not  a clade; speci onc classifi as dicot are now group into eudicots, magnoliids, and sever lineag of basal angiosperms.
a term tradit use to refer to flower plant that have two embryon seed leaves, or cotyledons. recent molecular evid indic that dicot do not  a clade; speci onc classifi as dicot are now group into eudicots, magnoliids, and sever lineag of basal angiosperms. dicot
doubl fertil a mechan of fertil in angiosperm in which two sperm cell unit with two cell in the femal gametophyt (embryo sac) to  the zygot and endosperm.
a mechan of fertil in angiosperm in which two sperm cell unit with two cell in the femal gametophyt (embryo sac) to  the zygot and endosperm. doubl fertil
endosperm in angiosperms, a nutrient-rich tissu  by the union of a sperm with two polar nuclei dure doubl fertilization. the endosperm provid nourish to the develop embryo in angiosperm seeds.
in angiosperms, a nutrient-rich tissu  by the union of a sperm with two polar nuclei dure doubl fertilization. the endosperm provid nourish to the develop embryo in angiosperm seeds. endosperm
eudicot member of a clade consist of the vast major of flower plant that have two embryon seed leaves, or cotyledons.
member of a clade consist of the vast major of flower plant that have two embryon seed leaves, or cotyledons. eudicot
filament in an angiosperm, the stalk portion of the stamen, the pollen-produc reproduct organ of a flower.
in an angiosperm, the stalk portion of the stamen, the pollen-produc reproduct organ of a flower. filament
flower in an angiosperm, a short stem with up to four set of modifi leaves, bear structur that function in sexual reproduction.
in an angiosperm, a short stem with up to four set of modifi leaves, bear structur that function in sexual reproduction. flower
fruit a matur ovari of a flower. the fruit protect dormant seed and often aid in their dispersal.
a matur ovari of a flower. the fruit protect dormant seed and often aid in their dispersal. fruit
indetermin cleavag a type of embryon develop in deuterostom in which each cell produc by earli cleavag divis retain the capac to develop into a complet embryo.
a type of embryon develop in deuterostom in which each cell produc by earli cleavag divis retain the capac to develop into a complet embryo. indetermin cleavag
integu layer of sporophyt tissu that contribut to the structur of an ovul of a seed plant.
layer of sporophyt tissu that contribut to the structur of an ovul of a seed plant. integu
magnoliid member of the angiosperm clade most close relat to eudicots. extant exampl are magnolias, laurels, and black pepper plants.
member of the angiosperm clade most close relat to eudicots. extant exampl are magnolias, laurels, and black pepper plants. magnoliid
monocot member of a clade consist of flower plant that have one embryon seed leaf, or cotyledon.
member of a clade consist of flower plant that have one embryon seed leaf, or cotyledon. monocot
ovul a structur that develop within the ovari of a seed plant and contain the femal gametophyte.
a structur that develop within the ovari of a seed plant and contain the femal gametophyte. ovul
petal a modifi leaf of a flower plant. petal are the often color part of a flower that advertis it to insect and other pollinators.
a modifi leaf of a flower plant. petal are the often color part of a flower that advertis it to insect and other pollinators. petal
pollen grain in seed plants, a structur consist of the male gametophyt enclos within a pollen wall.
in seed plants, a structur consist of the male gametophyt enclos within a pollen wall. pollen grain
pollin the transfer of pollen to the part of a seed plant contain the ovules, a process requir for fertilization.
the transfer of pollen to the part of a seed plant contain the ovules, a process requir for fertilization. pollin
progymnosperm an extinct seedless vascular plant that may be ancestr to seed plants.
an extinct seedless vascular plant that may be ancestr to seed plants. progymnosperm
radial symmetri symmetri in which the bodi is shape like a pie or barrel (lack a left side and a right side) and can be divid into mirror-imag halv by ani plane through it central axis.
symmetri in which the bodi is shape like a pie or barrel (lack a left side and a right side) and can be divid into mirror-imag halv by ani plane through it central axis. radial symmetri
sepal a modifi leaf in angiosperm that help enclos and protect a flower bud befor it opens.
a modifi leaf in angiosperm that help enclos and protect a flower bud befor it opens. sepal
stamen the pollen-produc reproduct organ of a flower, consist of an anther and a filament.
the pollen-produc reproduct organ of a flower, consist of an anther and a filament. stamen
stigma the sticki part of a flower carpel, which trap pollen grains.
the sticki part of a flower carpel, which trap pollen grains. stigma
 the stalk of a flower carpel, with the ovari at the base and the stigma at the top.
the stalk of a flower carpel, with the ovari at the base and the stigma at the top. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the effect where an action potenti "hops" from node of ranvier to node of ranvier is call [...] the effect where an action potenti "hops" from node of ranvier to node of ranvier is call saltatori conduct
the effect where [...] is call saltatori conduct the effect where an action potenti "hops" from node of ranvier to node of ranvier is call saltatori conduct
[...] function to produc myelin around axon in the cns oligodendrocyt function to produc myelin around axon in the cns
oligodendrocyt function to [...] oligodendrocyt function to produc myelin around axon in the cns
reproduct reproduct is a process in which an organ give rise to young one similar to it self.
life span the period from birth to natur death of an organ repres it life span.
organ with no death unicellular organ
ls of eleph 50
ls of dog 22
ls of butterfli 2
ls of crow 15
ls of cow 22
ls of parrot 14
ls of crocodil 60
hors 40
fruit fli 2 week
tortois 100
what the reproduct ensur continu of speci
hw mani type of reproduct is there 2 asexu and sexual
special of asexu reproduct clone,similar,unicellular ,singl parent
type of asexu reproduct fission,budding,veget propag
eg for fission protist and moneran
two type of fissio binari and multipl
eg for binari fission ameoba and paramecium
eg for multipl fission amoeba and plasmodium
bud small bud,mature,detach,new
eg for bud hydra,sponge,yeast
other asexu reproduct structur zoospore,conidia,gemmul
zoospor alga ,protist microscop motil structur
conidia pencillium
gemmul spong
eg for vegeat propagul runner,rhizome,sucker,tuber,offset,bulb
eg for veget propag -from bud of potato,banana,ging -bud  the notch of bryophyllum
juvelin phase the period of growth to reach in matur for sexual reproduction.
how we can underst the end of veget phase flower
annual and binneal plant show ---than perrini clear cut veget phase reproand senescens
unusu flow bamboo srobilanthus kunthiana
bamboo flower onc in 100-150 yrs lifetim
strobilanthus kunthiana flower onc in 12 year
the stage to reach reproduct juveline-physio and morpho chang-repro
non primat cows,sheep,rat,deer,dog,tig
primat monkey,apes,human
oestrous and mentrous cycl the chang that undergo in the  of ovary,accesori duct and gland and hormon
what happen in the scenesc concomit chang occur
what is respons for life phase chang hormon
event in sexual reproduct prefertilisation.fertilis and post fertilis
prefertilis consist of gametogenesi and gamat transfer
homogamet in some alga all gamet are similar and cant chatagoris into gender
heterogam the male and femal gamt can be distinguish
male and femal gamat are call antherozoid and egg
eg for dioecious plant papaya and date palm
eg for monoeci cucurbit and cocunut
homothal bisexu
heterothal unisexu
hermaphrodit bisexu anim
eg for bisexu anim earthworm,leech,sponge,tapeworm
eg for unisexu anim cockroach and higher anim
eg for haploid meiocyt monera,fungi,algae,bryophyt
eg for diploid moecyt pteridophytes,gymnosperm,angiosperm,anim
syngami the process of fusion of gamat to  zygote.
eg for parthanogen anim rotifers,honeybee,lizard,bird
aprthanogenesi femal gamat develop to new organ without fertilisation.
type of fertilis -intern and extern
eg for extern fertilis -algae,boni fishes,amphibian
eg for intern fertilis fungi,animal-reptiles,birds,mammal,plants-bryophyte,pteri,gymn,ang
what occur in the process of embryogenesi divis and differenti of cell
cerebrum with cerebellum, control all voluntari action; contain cerebr cortex, hippocampus, basal ganglia, and olfactori bulb
cerebellum integr input from spinal cord and cerebrum to regul motor ity, as well as some cognit function
medial cerebr fissur groov between two hemispher of cerebrum
olfactori bulb receiv and interpret olfactori signals; locat on undersid of brain
optic nerv transmit visual in from retina to brain
optic chiasma x-shape structur where optic nerv cross over each other in order to allow for binocular vision
infundibular stalk join hypothalamus and posterior pituitari
trigemin nerv transmit sensori in from face and motor instruct to mandibl
pon conduct signal from cerebrum to cerebellum and medulla and carri sensori signal to thalamus
facial nerv control facial muscl and transmit tast in to brain
medulla oblongata respons for autonom function
pineal bodi endocrin gland that produc melatonin
pituitari gland endocrin gland that regul physiolog process
thalamus relay sensori and motor signal to cerebrum, regul consciousness; between cerebrum and midbrain
hypothalamus link nervous system to endocrin system; abov brainstem, below thalamus
frontal lobe hous motor cortex, prefront cortex, and broca area
pariet lobe hous somatosensori cortex and sensori associ cortex
occipit lobe hous visual associ cortex and visual cortex
tempor lobe hous auditori cortex and wernick area
motor cortex control of skelet muscl
prefront cortex decis making, plan
broca area  speech
auditori cortex hear
wernick area comprehend languag
visual cortex process visual stimuli and pattern recognit
visual associ cortex combin imag and object recognit
sensori associ cortex integr of sensori in
somatosensori cortex sens of touch
what is ecosystem an ecosystem is a function unit of natur ,where live organ interact among themselv and also with the surround physic environment.
terresti ecosystem forest ,grassland,desert
aquat ecosystem pond,lake,wetland,river,estuari
man made ecosystem crop field and aquarium
entir biospher can be regard as global ecosystem
what function as unit in ecosystem biotic and abiot
stratif vertic distribut of differ speci occupyin differ level
eg for stratif tree -top vertic strata shrub - second herb -bottom layer
4 basic compon of function of an ecosystem 1.product 2.decomposit 3.energi flow 4.nutrient cycl
pond a pond is a shallow ,simpl ,self sustain water bodi that exhibit all basic compon of an ecosystem.
abiot compon in pond water and rich soil deposit at the bottom.
climat condit that affect the pond ecosystem solar input ,the cycl of temp,day length
autotroph compon of pond phytoplanktons,algae,floating,submerg and margin plant
consum of pond zooplanktons,fre swim and bottom dwell 
decompos of pond fungi,bacteria ,flagel
pond per all the ecosytem - -inorgan to organ in light by autotroph -heterotroph consum autotroph -decomposit and mineralis of dead
primari product the amount of biomass or organ matter produc per unit area over a time period by plant dure photosynthesi
unit of primari product [sound:rec1453416828.mp3]
product the rate of biomass product
unit of product [sound:rec1453416870.mp3]
two type of product npp,gpp
gpp gross primari product it is the rate of product of organ matter dure photosynthesi .a consider gpp is use by plant
npp net primari product gpp-r(respir loss)
secondari product it is the rate of at of new organ matter by consum
primari product depend on -the plant speci inhabit a particular area. -environment factor -availibilti of nutrient -photosynthet capac of plant
annula net primari product 170 billion ton dri weight-70 on surfac and 55 bt on ocien
decomposit it is the breakdown of complex organ matter by decompos into inorgan substanc like carbon dioxid and nutrients-oxygen requir process
detritus dead plant remainingsuch as leav ,bark,flow and dead remain of animal,includ fecal matter is the raw materi for decomposit
step of decomposit a.fragment b.leach c.catabol d.humif e.miner
fragment it is the breakdown of detrirus into smaller particl by detritovores-earthworm
leach by this process ,water solubl inorgan nutrient go down into the soil horizon and get precipitateda unavail salt
catabol degrad of detritus into simpler inorgan substanc by bacteri and fungal enzym
humif accumul of humus in soil ,decompos veri slowli serv as reserv of nutreient
miner it is the releass of inorgan nutrient dueto the degrad of humus some microb
factor affect decomposit -chemic composit of detritus -climat factor like temp and soil moistur
chemic composit of detritus decomposit rate slow if detritus is rich in lignin and chitin and fst if richin nitrogen and water solubl substanc like sugar
how climat facter like temp and soil moistur affect decomposit warm and mosit environ favour decomposit wherea low temp and anaerobiosi inhibit decomposit  in buildinup of organ matter
the energi sourc like sun deep sea hydro thermal ecosytem
par 50% of sun is photosynthet  radiat
plant captur 2-10 % of par
ecosystem obey 2nd law of thermodyanam they need constand suppli of energi to synthesis the molecul they requir ,to counteract the univers tendenc toward disorderli
produc all organ depend on produc for their food
primari produc in aquat phytoplankton,algae,high plant
what is begin of detritus food chain death of the organ
a simpl graze foodchain pleas grass -goat-man
gfc graze food chain
dfc begin with dead matters.it is made up of decompos (saprotrophs) which are heterotroph organismeg fungi and bacteria
how decompos meet energi need by degrad dead organ matteror detritus
how decomposr degrad food materi they produc enzym which breakdown dead and wast materi into simpl inorgan materi ,which are subsequ absorb by them
in aquat ecosystem which is the major conduit for energi gfc
in a terresti the major conduit for energi is dfc
trophic level a specif place of organ in the natur in the food chain is known as their trophic level.
eg for 1st trophic level phytoplanktons,grass ,tree
2nd trophic level zooplankton ,grasshoper,cow
3rd trophic level bird ,fishes,wolf
4th trophic level man,lion
food web the interconnectionof food chain is call food web
stand crop each trophic level has a certain mass of live materi at aparticular time call stand crop
how stand crop is measur as the mass of live organ or the number in a unit area-biomass of a speci is measur in dri weight becaus it is more accur
whi no of trophic level in gfc is restrict as the transfer of energi follow 10% law
10 % law onli 10 % of the energi is transfer to each trophic level from the lower level
ecolog pyramid the represenait of a food chain in the  of a pyramid is call ecolog pyramid
3 type of the ecolog pyramid a.pyramid of number b.pyramid of biomass c.pyramid of energi
energi at lower level is higher than of that of higher level-hrbivor are more in number than that of carnivor
exampl for invert pyramid -insect feed on a big tree -pyramid of biomass in sea is general invert becaus the biomass of fish far exceed that of phytoplankton
how energi is lost in the  of heat
limitaion of ecolog pyramid -it doe take into account thesam speci belong 2 or more trophic level. -it doe not accomod the food web -saprophyt are not includ in ecolog pyramid even though they play a major role
ecolog success it is a gradual ,slow and predict chang in the speci composit of an area lead to a climax communiti
climax communiti communiti that is in equilibrium with the environ
success lead to incereas in number or declin of other speci
sere the entir sequenc of communiti that success chang in a given area
seral stage or communiti the individu transit communiti are term
in success seral stage what occur chang i n the divers of speci ,increas in number and organ and increas in the total biomass
success and evolut are parallel in earlier time
success is of two type -primari and secondari
primari success the success take place in are where no li ving organ ever exist
eg for primari success newli cool lava,bar rocks,newli creat pond
primari success speed veri slow
secondari success the success take place in an area after the exist organ are lost
eg forsecondari success abondon farmland,brn or cut forest,land that have been flood
speci that invad depend on the condit of th e soil,avail of water
in success ,chang in the veget affect food and shelter of various organ
which can convert a particular seral stage of success to an earlier stage deforest and fire by human induc disturb
two type of success of plant -hydrarch -xerarch
hydrarch success it take place in wetter areas.th success seri progress from hydric to the mesic condition.
xerarch success it take place in dri areas.th seri progress from xeric to mesic condit
all succes lead to medium water condition-mes
the speci invad a bare area is call pioneer speci
primari success on rocks-xerophyt habitat 1.lichen-secret acid to dissolv rock 2.small bryophyt 3.bigger plant 4forest-climax
climax communiti remain stabl as long as the environ remain unchang
primari succes in water 1.phytoplankton 2.free -float angiosperm 3.root hydrophyt 4.sedges,grass 5.tree
stand state the amount of nutrient like carbon,nitrogen,phosphor ,calcium etc present in the soiil at given time ,is refer
how the stand state vari differ kind of ecosystem and on season basi
nutrient cycle(biogeochem cycles) the movement of nutrient element through various compon of an acosystem
nutrient cycl are 2 type a.gas cycl b.sedimentari cycl
gaseous cycl for this ,the reservoir exist in the atmosphere(nitrogen ,carbon cycl etc)
sedimentari cycl the reservoir is locat in earth crust(sulphur and phosphor cycle)
rate of releas of nutrient are base on soil, moisture,ph,temperatur etc)
the reservoir meet with the deficit of nutrient due to imbal in the ratt of influx and efflux
reservoir of c atm-1% orga(dri weight)-49% ocean-regualt atmospher co2-71% fossil fuel
through where c cycl occur atmo,ocean,liv and dead organ
how much c is fix through photosynthes 4*10 13 kg
some amount of c is lost how lost to sediment and remov from circul
role of human  in carbon cycl deforest ,burn of fossil fueletc.ha increas the rate of releas of co 2 into the atmospher
reaervoir of p constitu of the biolog membrane,nucl acid,cellular enrgi transfer system
natur reservoir of p rock(in the  of phosphates)
the p cycl flowchart refer text book
differ b/w c andp cycl refer text
ecosystem servic the product of ecosystem process
what healthi ecosystem provid purifi air an d water habitat mitig drought and flood cycl nutrient storag site for c aesthet and spiritu valu
who price tag the natur life support servicess robert constanza
how much is price of the ecosystem servic 33 trillion dollar 18 twice that of global gross nation product
contribut of soil to 33 trillion is 50%
recreat and nutrient cycl to 33 trillion less than 10%
climat regul and habitat for wildlif rc 6%
old biotechnolog deal with techniqu of use live organ or their enzym for product and process use to human
efb european federaion of biotechnoli
biotechnology-efb defin biotechnolog as the integrationof natur scienc ,cell ,part thereof ,and molecular analogu for product and servic
biotechnolog deal with -microb mediat -invitro -synthesi and use of a gene -prepar of dna vaccin -correct a defect gene
principl of biotechnolog a.genet engin b.maintanac of steril ambienc
genet engin the techniqu in ehich the genet materi is chemic alter and indroduc into host organ to chang the phenotyp
whi steril ambienc the traditionamethod lead to inclus and multiplc of undesir gene along with the desir gene.genet engin help to isol and indroduc onli desir gene.
how the first recombinanat dna emerg from the possibl of link a gene of antibiot resist with the nativ plasmid of salmonella triphimurium
who isol the antibiot resist gene stanley cohen and herbert boyer in 1972
3 basic step in genet modifi an organ 1.identif of dna with the desir genes. 2.indroduct of the identifi dna into the host 3.maintan of indroduc dna in the host and transfer of the dna into progeni
tool of recombin dna technolog 1.restrict enzym 2.clone vector 3.compet host
how the restrict enzym is found 1963-two enzym respons for the restrict the growth of bacteriophag in e.coli were isol .one ad methyl gp other cut dna
first restrict endonucleas hind ii
recognit sequenc a sequenc of six pair where the restrict enzym cut
how mani restrict enzym is found 900 from over 230 strain of bacteria
name of restrict enzym ecori roman number =the order in which the enzym were isol from the strain of bacteria
two type of nucleas exonucleas and endonucleas
exonucleas they remov nucleotid from the end of the dna
endonucleas they cut at specif posit within the dna
how restriciton endonucleas cut dna they can recogn specif sequenc and cut each of two strand at specif posit
palindrom sequenc dna sequenc of base pair that read the same in both direct if orient is kept the same
sticki end the restriciton enzym cut the dna littl awi from the palindrom site b/w the same bases,thi  in overhang structur at the end
the pros of the sticki end they  h bond with complementari cut .this sticki facilit the action of dna ligas
gel electrophorosi dna fragment  by restrict enzym can be seper by a techniqu
process of electrophorosi they are made to move toward the anod as it is -ve chargedund an electr field through a medium or matrix such as agaros
the smaller size fragment move faster
how it is identifi visualis after stain with ethidium bromid follow by expostur to uv rays-bright orang colour dna band can be seen
elut the seper dna band are cu out from agaros gel and extract from gel piec
clone vector they are the dna molecul that can carri a foreign dna segment and replic insid the host cell
eg for the clone vector plasmid and bacteriophag
featur of clone vector a.ori b.select marker c.clone site
ori this is a sequenc from where replic start .a piec of dna link to ori can replic within the host cells.
select marker it help to select the transan and non transan
trans is a procedur in which a piec of dna is indroduc in a host bacterium
select marer of e choli ampicilin ,chloramphenicol,tetracyclin or kanamycin
ligat of alien gene is carri out in one of the two antibiot resist gene
altern selectalb marer chromogen substrat line to enzym ,alpha galactosidas ,if recombin then it becom inaciv and no colour is there
agrobacterium tumifacien a pathogen of mani dicot plant can deliv t dna which is tumour inducing.it is modifi to clone vector to deliv gene of interest into plants.
retrovirus can trans normal cell into cancer cell
make host competetnt dna is hydrophil -no passag through cell membran so bacteri cel are treat with a specif con of a dival cation-dna enter through pore -incub with dna on ice .then place briefli on 42 and put them back on ice
other method to indroduc alien dna into host cell micro inject biolist disarm pathogen vector
microinject in this ,recombin dna is direct inject into the nuclea of an anim cell.
biolist in this ,cell are ombared with high veloc micro particl of gold or tungsten coat with dna
process of recombianat dna technolog 1.isol of the genet materi 2.cut of dna at specif locat 3.amplif of gene of interest use pcr 4.insert of recombian dna into the host cell 5.obtain the foreign gene product
isol of genet materi cell are treat with enzym lysozym -bacteria cellulase-pl cell chitinase-fungi
how is rna remov ribonucleas
how is the dna precipit when they are treat with chill ethanol
cut of dna at specif locat -incub purifi dna with restrict enzym at optim temperatur -agaros gel electrophorosi is empli for progress -interest gene and the vector are mix and ligas is ad
pcr is the synthesi of mulitipl copi of the gene of interest in vitro use 2 set of primer and the enzym dna polymeras
primer are small chemic synthes oligonucleotid that are complementari to the region of dna
dna polymereas extend the primer use nucleotid and the genom dna and amplifi to 1billion
for amplif a thermost dna polymereas is use thermus aquaticus
what is ultim aim of the recombin dna technolog to produc desir product
recombin protein if a protein encod gene is express in a heterolog host
bioreactor to produc larg quantiti of product ,the bioreactor are use where larg volum of cultur can be process
bioreactor- are the vessel in which raw materi are biolog convert into specif product ,enzym etc use microbi plant ,anim or human cell
stir tank reactor it is usual cylindr or with a curv base to facilit the mix of the reactor content .the stirer facilit even mix and oxygen avail
bioreactor has -an agit system -an oxygen deliveri system -a foam control system -a temp control system -ph control system -sampl port
down stream process it is a seri of process such as seper and purif of product after the biosynthet stage clinic trial also carri out
applic of biotechnolog a.biopharmaceut b.therapeut c.diagnost d.gmc for agricultur e.process food f.biomedi g.wast treatment h.energi product
3 critic reserch area a.provid the best catalyst in the  of improv organ usual a microb or pure enzym b.creat optim condit c.downstream process technolog to purifi the protein compound
3 option for increas food product a.agro -chemic bass food product b.organ agricultur c.genet engineeredcrop -base agricultur
gmo are the plant ,bacteria ,fungi and anim whise gene are alter by manipulation.
advantag of gmo -moretoler to abiot stress -reduc use of chemic pest -reduc post harvest loss -increas effici of miner usag by plant -it enhanc nutrit valu of food -gm is use to creat tailor made plant to suppli altern resourc to industri ,in the  of starch ,fuel and pharmaceut
pest resist plant bio pesticid eg-bt cotton,rice,tomato,potato,soyabean
bt bacillus thuringensi
bt kill coleopterans-beetl lepidopterans-tobacco budworm dipterans-fli ,mosquito
whi protein doesnt kill bt becaus it exist as inact protoxin
how then protein kill when an insect ingest the inact toxin ,it is  due to alkali phof the gut which solubulis the crystal
how protein kill toxin  to the surfac of midgut epitheli cell and creat pore -it caus swell ,lysi
which gene produc protein cri gene
cryiac and cryiiab cotton bollworm
cryiab corn borer
how can nematod meloidegayn incognito infectt remov rna interfer
rnai is amethod of cellular defens in all eukaryot organisms.it prevent translat of a specif mrna due to a complementari dsrna molecul
the sourc of this comlpemntari rna is from an infect by rna virus or mobil genet element that replic via an rna intermedi
transpon mobil gentic element
how -nematod resist -nematod specif gene is indroduc which produc sens and antisens rna in the host which complementari and  dsrna that initait rnai and silenc the specif mrna of nematod
whi recombin medicin is goo mass product of safe and more effect therapeut drug -doe not induc unwant immunolog respons
how mani gmo medicin is certifi 30 and 12 in india
what is the structur of insulin two short polypeptid chain a and b that are link by disulphid bridg
what is prohormon in mammal the insulin is produc as a prohormon that is it consisit of an extra structur call the c peptid and need process befor it becom a fulli matur and function hormon
who found the artifici insulin 1983 eli lilli an american compani
how the artifici insulin is made made dna sequenc corr to a and b and seper produc and are link to the e choli then combin by disulphid bond
gene therapi it is the method of correct a gene defect diagnos ina child or embryo
how is gene therapi carri outo gene is insert into a person cell and tissu to treat a heriditari disease. it compens for the non function gene.
first gene therapi 1990 to a 4 year old girl with ada(adenosin deaminass defici
whi ada occur h delet of the gene fot ad crucial for the immun system to function
the earli method of cure ada bone marrow transplant and enzym replac therapi (inject of function gene)
how gene therapi for the ada the lymphocyt is grown in a cultur and ada cdna is indroduc -period replac is necessari but if it is done in earli stage then it will be a permanet cure
molecular diafnosi recombin dna technolog pcr elisa
pcr as diagnosi detect hiv power also to detect the mutat
pcr is done the ssdna or ssrna is tag and then allow to hybridis with the complementari dna is it is mutat then in autoradiographi we cant see it
elisa is base on the principl of antigen antibodi interact -bi antigen (protein,glycoprotein) antibodi against the pathogen
transgen anim these are anim whhose genom has been alter by indroduct of the an extra gene by manipul
benefit of transgen anim -to studi normal physiolog and develop -to studi the contribut of gene in diseas develop -biolog product -vaccin safeti -chemic safeti test
to studi normal physiolog &amp; development: transgen anim are use to studi how genear regul ,and how they affect then nornal bodi function and it develop studi the complex factor such as insulin like growth factor
to studi the contribut of gene in the develop of a diseas help to investig of new treatment cancer ,cystic fibrosi ,rheumatid arthriti and alzeim
biolog product alpha 1 antitripsin use to treat the emphysema ,pku , cystic fibrosi
rosi 1997 protein enrich milk.alpha lactalbumin and is more balanc to human be
vaccin safeti mice and monkey
toxxic testingo compar tran and non tran in a toxic environ
ethic issu -problem of unpredict  -problem of patent -biopiraci
geac genet engin approv committe
eg for biopiraci basmati rice and herbal medicin like turmer and neem
how mani varieti of basumati in india 27 varieti of basumati
biopiraci it is the use of bioresourc by multin compani and other organis without proper authoris from countri and peopl
which plant show the sexual reproduct angiosperm
flower are morpholog and embryolog structur and the site of reproduction.
androecium whorl of stamen
two part of stamen a.fila b.anther
filament the long and slender stalk.it proxim and is attach to the thalamus or the petal of the flower.
anther the termin and typic bilob structur .
how mani theca 2 dithec .often a longitudin groov run length wise seper the theca.
the layer of the microsporagium circular epidermis,endothecium,middl layer,tapetum
fn of tapetum nourish the develop pollen grain
the cell of tapetum dens cytoplasm and have more than one nucleas.
sporogen tissu the gp of homogen cell which occupi the centr of microsporangia when the anther is young
what cell convert to the microspor tetrad sporogen tissu
each of the tetrad is potenti pollen
microsporogenesi the at of microspor from a pmc through meiosi is
when the microspor get dissoci when the anther matur and the dehydr
pollen grain spheric and 25-50 pico meter and cytoplasm surround by the plasma membran
two layer of the pollen exin and intin
exin the hard outer layer.mad up of sporopollenin
prop of sporopollenin it is high resist and enzyme,acid or alkali cant degrad it
where the sporopollenini absent germ pore apertur
intin the inner wall . it is thin and continuo layer made up of cellulos and pectin
two cell in a matur pollen grain veget cell and generat cell
veget cell is bigger , has abund food reserv and a larg irregular shape nucleas.
generat cell is small and float in the cytoplasm of the veget cell. it is spindl shape with dens cyto plasm and a nucleas.
when the pollen grain shed in 2 cell and 3 cell stage
viabil of the pollen grain depend on temp and humid
viabil of cereal 30min
leguminoseae,rosa,solan pollen volat month
the con of parthenium chronic asthma and bronchiti
advantag of the pollen grain -increas per -rich in nutrient -food suplement
singl pistil monocarpelleri
more than one pistil multipicarpallari
fuse pistil syncarp
free pistil apocarp
part of pistiil stigma  ovari
stigma it is a land plat for pollen grain
 it is an elong slender part beneath the stigma
ovari it is the basal bulg part of the pistil.
locul the ovarian
ovul megasporangia
eg for one ovul plant wheat and paddi
mani ovul papaya,watermelon,orchid
megasporangium it is a structur attach to the placenta by mean of a stalk-funicl
hilum the junction where the bodi of ovul and funicl fuse
integu each ovul has one or two protect envelop
micropyl integu encircl the ovul expect at the tip where a small open is organis
chalaza opposit the micropylar end is the
nucellus enclos within the integuments,ther is a mass of cell
nucellus contain reserv food materi
embryo sac is locat in the nucellus
megasporo genesi 
monospor develop the convers of one ovul to  the embryou sac
egg apparatus cell 2 synergid 1 egg cell
fili the synergid have a special cellular thicken at the micropylar tip-guid pollen tube to the synergid
antipod the 3 cell at chalaz end
central 2 nuclea
autogami same flower
eg for autogami viola -common panci oxali and commelina
the condit of autogami close ,synchroni
two type of the autogami a.chasmogam b.cleistogam
chasmogam expos anther and stigma
cleisogam anther and stigma close assur seed set
geitogami differ flower same plant
xenogami in this ,differ plant differ flower pollin
agent of pollin 1.abiot agent 2.biotic agent
pollin condit -anemophili -larg amount of pollen -light and non sticki pollen -well expos stamen -larg ,featheri stigma -sever flower are pack to one inflores
eg for anemophili corncob-wav tassel in the wind
hydrophili water
eg for the hydrophilya vallisneria and hydrilla(fresh water) zostera (marin sea -grasses)
vallisneria femal reach the surfaceof water by long stalk the male flower is releas to the surfac
sea grass femal flower remain submerg pollen grain are long and ribbon like
entomophili insect
featur of the insect pollin flower -larg ,colour ,fragrant and rich in nectar. -when the flower are small ,they  inflores -foul odour to attract these anim -the pollen grain are general sticki
amrphophallus yucca deposit the egg in locul
pollen robber mani insect consum pollen or nector without bring about pollin
eg for outbreed devic a.avoid synchron b.arrang of anther and stigma at differ posit c.self incompat d.product of unisexu flower
avoid synchron pollen releas and stigma recept are not synchron
self incompat it is a genet mechan to prevent self pollen from fertil by inhibit pollen germin
product of unisexu flower in monoeci autogami is prevent in dioecious plant autogami and geitenogami is also prevent
pollen pistil interact it is a dynam process involv pollen recognist follow by promot or reject of the pollen.
how pollen pistil interact take place through chemic compon produc by them
the gamt enter the synergid through micropyl
whi doubl fertilis becaus of syngami and tripl fusion take place
primari endosperm cell the central cell after tripl fusion becom the pec and develop into endosperm while the zygot develop into an embryo.
post fertilis endosperm and embryo develop
triploid endosperm cell the primari endosperm cell divid repeat and  a triploid endosperm tissu
endosperm cell are fill with the reserv materu 
free nuclear endosperm in common endosperm develop the pen undergo success nuclear divis to give rise to free nuclei
eg for free nuclear cocunut water
what is same in the both mono and dicot embryogeni earli embryon develop
zygot give rise to proembryo,globular ,heart shaped,matur embryo
where embryo develop at the micropylar end of the embryo sac where zygot is situat
in grass famili cotyledon is call scutellum
seed consist of seed coat,cotyledons,an embryo axid
non albumin seed pea ,groundnut,bean
albumin seed wheat,maiz ,barley,castor,coconut,sunflow
perisperm remnant of nucellus is present-black pepper,beet
wall of ovvari pericarp
fleshi fruit guava,orange,mango,
dri fruit groundnuts,mustard
2 type of fruit true fuit fals fruit
true fruit in most plant ,the fruit develop onli from the ovari and other floral part degener and fall off.
fals fruit the thalamus also contribut to fruit at
eg for fals fruit appl and strawberri
advantag of seed -help to colon other areas. -they have food reserv -protect the young embryo -new genet combin -dehydr and dormanc of maatur seed is crucial
lupine-lupinus arcticus artic tundra 10,000 year
date palm-phoenix dactylifera 2000.king herod
apomixi is the product of seed without fertilis eg.asteracea and grass
polyembryo some of nucellar cell surround the embryo sac divid ,protrud into embryo
import of apomixi -must produc each year -lose hybrid charact -cost -if made apomict then good
hormon a signal molecul produc by a gland to regul physiolog function through the bloodstream
a signal molecul produc by a gland to regul physiolog function through the bloodstream hormon
endocrin gland secret hormon direct into blood, e.g. pituitari gland
secret hormon direct into blood, e.g. pituitari gland endocrin gland
exocrin gland secret product through a duct onto tissue, e.g. mucous gland
secret product through a duct onto tissue, e.g. mucous gland exocrin gland
non-steroid hormon communic  to a receptor site on surfac of cell, which trigger transduct pathway to caus physiolog chang either immedi or through second messeng
steroid hormon communic travel into nucleus and  to receptor protein that caus mrna synthesi to produc protein
stimul cell growth, reproduction, and regener growth hormon (gh)
stimul product of thyroxin to increas metabol thyroid-stimul hormon (tsh)
stimul product of cortisol to inceas blood sugar and metabol adrenocortocotrop hormon (acth)
stimul lactat and cervic dilat oxytocin (oxt)
aid in water retent and constrict of arteri antidiuret hormon (adh)
stimul metabolism, protein synthesis, and cell growth/differenti thyroxin (t 4 )
lower calcium level in the blood calcitonin (ct)
rais calcium level in the blood parathyroid hormon (pth)
mobil brain and bodi for action ("fight-or-flight" response) epinephrin (epi) and norepinephrin (ne)
regul glucos intake, glycogenesis, and glycolysi insulin (ins)
regul glycogenolysi and gluconeogenesis; increas blood sugar level glucagon (gcg)
regul blood pressur aldosteron (a)
synchron circadian rhythm melatonin (mt)
stimul growth of secondari sexual characterist in male testosteroston (t)
sclera protect outer layer of eye
cornea transpar part of sclera that allow passag of light through pupil
len chang shape to focus light on retina
ciliari bodi allow len to chang shape
choroid suppli blood to the eye
iri control amount of light pass through pupil
retina receiv imag and transmit it through optic nerv
optic nerv transmit visual imag from retina to optic lobe
rod more sensit photoreceptor without color vision, allow night vision and peripher vision
cone less sensit but more respons photoreceptors, allow percept of color and fine detail
pinna outer part of the ear that funnel vibrat into the ear canal
ear canal conduct outsid vibrat to tympan membran
tympan membran reson with vibrat in the air, move malleus
incus transmit and amplifi vibrat from malleus to stape
stape receiv vibrat from incus and push against oval window
receiv vibrat from incus and push against oval window stape
oval window receiv vibrat from stape and transmit to wave in lymphat fluid of cochlea
receiv vibrat from stape and transmit to wave in lymphat fluid of cochlea oval window
cochlea wave caus by movement of oval window disturb hair cell in organ of corti, which transmit signal through auditori nerv
wave caus by movement of oval window disturb hair cell in organ of corti, which transmit signal through auditori nerv cochlea
round window allow wave in lymphat fluid of cochlea to dissip
allow wave in lymphat fluid of cochlea to dissip round window
otolith organ detect orient and graviti through motion of viscous fluid and granul of calcium carbonate, which disturb hair cell
detect orient and graviti through motion of viscous fluid and granul of calcium carbonate, which disturb hair cell otolith organ
semicircular canal detect motion and acceler through movement of endolymph fluid, which disturb hair cell
detect motion and acceler through movement of endolymph fluid, which disturb hair cell semicircular canal
eustachian tube allow pressur to equal on either side of tympan membran
allow pressur to equal on either side of tympan membran eustachian tube
anim husbandari it is the agricultut oractitic of breed and rais livestock by appli scientif principl
anim husbandari deal with -the care and breed of live stock -poultari farm and fisheri
dairi farm manag it is the manag of anim for increas yield and qualiti of milk and it products.
milk yield depend on qualiti of breed in the farm
for the yield potenti - well look after -the feed of cattl -stringent clean and hygien
hw to ensur the hygien -regular inspect -regular visit by vetenari doctor
poultri is the domest bird use for food or egg
eg for poultri chicken,ducks,turkey ,gees
compon of poultri farm manag -select of diseas free and suitabl -proper and safe farm condit -feed and water -hygien and health care
breed a breed is a gp of anim relat by similar general appear ,features,s
breed is the modif of genotyp of an organ to make that organ more use to human
aim of anim breed increas the yield of anim and improv the desir qualiti of produc
two type of breed a.inbreed b.ourbreed
inbreed mate of more close relat individu within the same breed for 4-6 generat
process of inbreed -superiormal and femal is mate -from progeni same method is repeat
advantag of inbreedinf -incres homozygos to evolv pure line -expos harm recess gene elimin -accumul of superior gene and elemin of less desir gene -increas product
inbreed depress continu inbreed ,especi close inbreed ,may reduc fertil and product
how to chang inbreed deppress mate with unrel superior anim of same breed
out breed it is the breed of unrel anim
type of out breed out crossing,cross breed ,interspecif hybridis
out cross this is mate of anim within the same breed ,but have no common ancestor on either side of their pedigre up to 4-6 generat
offspr of our cross out cross
pros of outcross overcom inbreed depress it is for low productivity,growth rate in beef cattl
cross breed in this method,superior male of one is mate with the superior femal of anoth breed
fn of cross breed may be use for commerci subject to inbreedingand select of stabl superior breed
eg for the cross breed hisardal sheep develop in punjab by cross bikaneri and marino ram
inter specif hybridis it is the mate of male and femal of two differ speci
eg for interspecif hybridis mule
moet multipl ovul embryo transfer technolog
moet it is a programm for herd improv .cow is administ with fsh like  ,to induc follicular matur and super ovul at 8-32 stage then it is transfer into surrog mother
apicultur it is the maintanac of hive of honey bee for the product of honey
pros of honey high nutrit valu and medicin valu bee wax for cosmet and polish can be done in ani area have suffici bee pastur of wild shrub ,fruit orchad and cultiv crop
import point for success bee-keep knowledg of the natur and habir select of suitabl locat catch and hive of swarm manag of beehiv dure diff season handl and collectionof honey and beewax
bee are pollin of sunflow ,brassica ,appl and pear
fisheri is an industri of catch ,process or sell of fish,shellfish or other aquat animals(prawn ,crab,lobster,oyster)
freshwat fish catla,rohu ,common carp
marin fish hilsa,sardines,mackeral,pomfret
aqua cultur and piscicultur are the techniqu to increas the product of aquat anim and plant
blue revolut the develop and flourish of the fish industri
plant breed it is the purpos manipul of plant speci in order to creat desir plant type that are better suit for cultiv ,give better yield and are diseas resist
green revolut the develop and flourish of the agriculture.it was depend on the plant breed
classic plant breed involv hybridis of pure line and artifici select to produc desir traits.
desir gene that breeder tri to incorpor -crop yield,qual ,toler to environment stresses.toler to insect pest
step of breed collect of genet variabl evalu and select of parent cross hybridis among select parent
germplasm collect the entir collectionof plant /seed have all the allel for all gene in a given crop
collect of genet variabl collect and preserv of all the differ wild varieties,speci and relat of the cultiv speci is a pre requisit for effect exploit of natur gene
evalu and select of parent the germplasm is evalu so as to identifi plant with desir combin of charact
cross hybridis among the select parent the desir charact have to be combin from two differ plants.thi is possibl by cross hybrid the two parent to produc hybrid that genet combin the desir charact in one plant
limit of cross hybridis -time consum -may not combin the desir charact -on one in hundr to a thousand cross show the desir combin
select and test of superior recombin it is crucial to the success of the breed object and requir care scientif evalu of the progeni they are self pollin till they attain a state of uni
test ,releas and commerci evalu for their yield and other agronom trait of qualiti ,diseas resist
the test they are grown on research field under ideal fertil and other manag strategi then in farmer field for atleast 3 grow season at sever locat -materi is evalu in comparison to the best avail local crop cultivator(a check or refer cultivar)
increas in wheat product from 1960-2000 11m to 75m rice35m-89.5m
who indroduc semi dwarf whear nobel naurat norman e.borlayg(intern centr for wheat and maiz improv ,mexico)
the high yield ,diseas resist wheat in india sonalika and kalyan sona
semi dwarf rice deriv from ir-8(intern rice research institute) and taichung native-1 from taiwan
the semi dwarf rice varieti in india jaya and ratna
sugar cane saccharam barberi (bad) cross with saccharam officinarum(trop cane in south india do not grow in north india
millets:hybrid maiz ,jowar and bajra resist to water stress
plant breed for diseas resist it enhanc food product and help to reduc the use of fungicid and bacteriocid
fungal diseas rust(brown rust of wheat,r rot of sugarcan and late blight of potato)
bacteri diseas black rot of crucif
viral diseas tobacco mosaic ,turnip mosaic
method of breed for diseas resist 1.convent methods. 2.mutat breeding.
convent method -screen germ plasma for resistnr sourc -hybridis of select parent -select and evalu of the hybrid -test and releas of new varieti
diseas resist varieti of the wheat himgiri leaf and stripe rust ,hill bunt
brassica pusa swarnim(karan rai) white rust
cauliflow pusa subhra,pusa snowbal k-1 bacteri blight
chilli pusa sadabahar chilli mosaic virus , tobacco mosaic virus ,and leaf curl
mutat breed can creat new desir charact not found in the parent type
mutat breed is the breed by mutat through use of chemic or radiat (like gamma radiation) and select and use the plant that have desir charact as a sourc in breed
eg for mutat breed mung bean,resist to yellow mosaic virus and powderi mildew were induc by mutation.
eg for from wild to high yield resist to yellow mosaic virus in bhindi was transfer from a wild speci and  in a new varieti call parbhani kranti
transfer of resist gene is achiev by sexual hybridis b/w the target and the sourc plant
insect resist in host plant may be due to morpholog ,biochemical,physiolog
hairi leav resist to jassid in cotton and cereal leaf beatl in wheat
solid stem in wheat lead to non prefer by the stem sawfli
smooth leav and nector less cotton varieti do not attract bollworm
high aspart acid,low nitrogen and sugar lead to resist to maiz stem borer
brassica(rapese mustards) pusa gaurav aphid
flat bean pusa sem2,pusa sem3 jassids,aphids,fruit borer
okra bhindhi pusa sawami pusa a4 shoot and fruit borer
hidden hunger 3 billion peopl suffer from mal nutrient,protein and vitamin defici
biofortif breed crop with high level of nutrient help to improv public health
object of breed for improv nutriion qualiti improv -protein -oil -vitamin -micronutri and miner
eg for improv nutrit qualiti plant maiz with twice the amount of amino acid,lysin and tryptophan wheat varieti atlas have high protein content iron fortifi rice 5 time exist iron
veget crop in vitamin and miner releas by indian agricultur research institut ,new delhi
eg for veget crop richin vitamin vitamin a enrich carrots,spinach,pumpkin;vitamin c enrich bitter gourd,bathua ,mustard,tomato;iron and calcium enrich spinach and bathu and protein enrich beans(broad ,lablab,french ,garden pea
scp it is an altern sourc of protein for anim and human nutrit eg microb like spirulina
spirulina is rich in protein ,miner ,fat ,carbohydr and vitamins.it is grown on materi like wast water from potato process plant ,straw ,molasses,anim manur and sewage.reduc environement pollution.
250g of micro organ methylophilus methylotrophus produc 25 tonnes.
tissu cultur a techniqu of grow plant cells/tissue/organ in steril cultur medium under control asept condition.
totipot the abil to generat a whole plant from ani cell/expl
explant is ani part of a plant that is grown in a testtub under steril nutrient media
the nutrient medium in explant carbon sourc (sucrose),inorgan salts,vitamin ,amino acid and growth regul like auxins,cytokinin
micropropog the method of produc thousand of plant in veri short time through tissu cultur
soma clone these plant will be genet ident to origin plant,from which they are grown
eg for tissu cultur tomato ,banana,appl
meristem free from the virus
eg for meristem tissu cultur banana,sugarcane,potato
somat hybrid protoplast from two differ varieti of plant (with desir gene) are fuse to get hybrid protoplast.somat plant.
pollut is ani indesir chang in physic ,chemic or biolog characterist of air ,water,land and soil.
when govt take action and how environ protect act in 1986
caus of pollut particul and gaseous air pollut from smokestack of thermal powerpl ,smelter etc
what is harm for human be the particul size less than that of 2.5 pico meter
consequ of pollut -injuri to all organ -reduc growth and yield -affect the respiratori system.
control of air pollut particul matter must be seper lead free petrol phase out of old vehicl pollut level norm low sulphur petrol and diesal
electrostat precipit it is the devic use to remov particul matter. it can remov over 99% particul matter present in the exhaust from a thermal power plant.
work oof the electrostat precipitor -the electrod wire charg the particl -then allow to fall -so 2 remov by scrubber-pass through a spray of water or lime.
when air act is amend 1987
sourc of sound pollut music instrument loudspeak cracker industri
effect of nois -psycholog and physiolog -abov 150db may damag ear drum -chronic expostur to relat lower nois may damag hear abil of hyman. -sleeplessness,increas heartbeat and breath ,stress
control of nois pollut -sound absorb materi -horn free zorn delimit -permiss sound level of cracker and loadspeack -time of use of loudspeack
law and polici of india to control vehiculr pollut a.auto fuel polici b.euro ii norm c.the bharat stage ii
auto fuel has laid out a road map to cut down vehicular pollut in india citi
euro ii norm it stipul that sulphur be control at 350ppm in diesal and 150ppm iin petrol aromat hydrocarbon are to be contain at 42 of the concern fuel reduc sulphur 50ppm in petrol and diesel and bring down the level to 35%
the bharat stageii all must met the euro iii in 11 citi 1 april 2005 and euro iv in 1 april 2010 euro iii emiss norm compliant by 2010
the law of govt on water bodi water prevent and control of pollut act in1974
what make sewag unfit 0.1% of impur
bod the amount of biodegrad organ matter in sewag water is estim by bod
algal bloom plankton alga grow excess due to nutrient
water hyacinth eichhornia crassioes-terror of bengal
the con of water hyacinth they reprduc veri well they caus ecosystem imbal
biomagnif is the accumul of the toxic at succes trophic level .
caus of biomagnif mercuti ,ddt industri wast
biomagnif in aquat food chain water 0.003 }zooplan 0.04}small fishes0.5}larg fish 2}birds}5ppm
how ddt disturb bird the disturb calcium metabol in birds.caus thine of eggshel and prematur break
eutroph it is the natur age of a lake by nutrient enrich
what induc eutroph effluent from the industri .home -cultur or acceler eutroph
prime contamin of the eutroph nitrat and phosphat
caus of eutroph overstimul algae,unsighti scum, rob oxygen,from other lake may caus death
wast water treatment exampl arcata,northern coast of california .humbolt state univers
wast water treatment sediment and six connect marshland
sediment danger pollut heavi metal still remain .innov project
the marsh land in the treatment six connect 60 hectres- the alga fungi and plant assimil it high biodivers
foam friend of the arcata marsh
ecolog sanit dri compost,pract ,hygien ,effici and cost effect
solid wast refer everyth that goe out in a trash.
municip solid wast are wast from home ,offic ,store ,schools,hospit that are collect and dispos by municip
sanitari landfil were adopt as the substitut for open burn dumps.in it ,wast are dump in a depress or trench after compaction.and cover with dirt.
tree type of wastess biodegrad non bio recycl
rag picker kabadiwallah
ewast irrepar comput and other electron good are known as e wast buri or inciner
polyblend who ahm khan
polyblend it is a fine powder of recycl modifi plastic .mix with the bitumin and is use to lay road water repel properti and increas road life
chemic fertilis caus eutroph
integr organ farm it is a cyclic ,zero wast procedur ,where wast product from one process are cycl in as nutriebt for other
who indroduc iof ramesh chandra dagar
effect of radioact wast accident leakag safe dispos mutat
leakag of radioact materi incid in the three mile island and chernobyl
safeti radioact suffici pre treatment.shield container,buri within the rock .500m
green hous effect is a natur phenomenon respons for heat of earth surfac and atmosphere.it maintain 15
imapct of global warm deleteti chang in environ  in odd climat chang el nino effect
thick of ozon measur in dobson unit
which uv absorb by earth and what caus mutatio less than uv-b uv-b caus mutat
uv -b caus age of skin,damag skin cells,skin cancers.inflamm of cornea snow blindness..cataract
montreal protocol an intern treati in canada,1987 was sign to control the emiss of ozon deplet substanc
soil eros and desertif human  such as over cultiv ,deforest ,graze and poor irrig practic ,lead to soil eros arid patch of land and desertif and urbanis
nation forest polici of india recommend 33% forest cover for the plant and 67 for the hil .but onli 19.4 forest cover is present was about 30% 
slash and burn agricultur jhum cultiv -deforest in north eastern india
con of deforestio loss of biodiversity,soil erost hydrolog cycl disturb
award for save tree amrita devi bishnoi wildlif protect award
chipko movement of garhwal himalaya local women hug the axe 1947
jfm work close with the communiti
ecolog is the studi of interact among organ and between the organ and it physic environment.
ecolog is concern with 4 level of biolog organ organ ,population,communities,biom
oecolog at physiolog level explain how differ organ adapt to their encviron in term of surviv annd reproductiion
what caus variat in temp and season rotat of earth and tilt of it axi
major biom desert ,rain forest ,tundra  due to variat and precipit
what  habitat region and local variat
some extrem place rajasthan desert,rain soak meghalaya,deep ocean trench ,torrenti streams,polar region ,high mountain top
eg for abiot factor temp,water, light,soil
temp most ecolog relev environment factor
temperatur effect what kinet of enzym ,basal metabolism,and physiolog factor
euri thermal they can toler and thrive in a wide rang of temp
stenotherm they can toler onli a narrow rang of temperatur
water next to temp
for what plant depend on water product and distributioin
for aquat water role chemic composit and ph
the salt of inland 5
salt in sea 30-35
in hypersalin lagoon 100
euri halin toler wide rang of salin
stenohalin toler narrow rang of salin
use of light sunlight for photoperiod ultim sourc of energi
anim use diurnal and season variat iin light intens and photoperiod for time their forag ,reproduct and migratori 
natur of soil depend depend on climat ,weather process ,sedimentation,method for soil develop
what determin percol and water hold capac soil composition,grain size and aggreg
what determin the veget ph ,miner composit and topographi
what determin the type of benthic anim sediment characterist
differ type of organ on the basi the mean homeostasi regul regul .con.migr ,suspend
regul it is the maintan of homeostasi by physiolog and behaviour mean that ensur constant bodi tempertur ,constant osmot concentr -osmoregul
eg for regul bird and mammal veri few vertebr and invetrebr
con 99% cannot maintain constant temp
whi small anim are low in the polar region they have a larger surfac area relat to their volume.so they lose bodi heat fast
migrat mani anim like bird move away temporarili from stress habitat to a more hospit region and return when stress is over
eg for migrat kiolado nation park dure winter host migrat from siberian and other cold countri
hibern bear dure winter
aestiv of some snail and fish dure summer
diapaus -a stage of suspend develop zooplankton in lake and pond
adapt is the morpholog ,physiolog and behaviour attribut that enabl an organ to surviv and reproduc in it habitat
adapt of kangaroo rat -intern fat oxid give water as byproduct -abil to concentr urin so that minim volum of water is use to remov excertori product
adapt of desert plant thick cuticl on leaf surfac . their stomata are arrang in deep pit -cam that enabl close the stomata -opuntia has no leav
adapt of mammal in polar region colder climat have shorter ear and limb to reduc heat loss -seal have thick layer of fat below their skin -blubber
at high altitud 3500 symptom are altitud sick nausea ,heart palpit and fatigu
behaviour adapt -desert lizard bask in sun -some speci are capabl of burrow into the soil to hide and escap
popul is a gp of individu of same speci that live in a given geograph area ,share orcompet for similar resourc and potentiali reproduc
eg for popul cormor in wet land rat in abonden dwell teak wood in forest tract
whi is populationecolog in import link to ecolog of popul genet and evolut
popul attribut -birth rate -death rate -sex ratio -age pyramid -popul size or popul
birth rate refer to per capita birth
death rate refer to per capita death
sex ratio a popul has a sex ratio
age pyramid if a age distribut is plot for the popul ,the  structur is call an age group
age gp may be expand ,stable,declin
popul sizw or densiti it is the number of individu of a speci per unit area or volum
popul size of chlamydomona million
when there is huge banyan and parthenium how popul size is measur %cover or biomass
how larg popul is measur relat popul densiti is use per trap
how tiger is measur pug mark and fecal pellet
popul growth depend on food avail ,predat pressur ,weather
4 basic process that fluctuat the popul densiti a.nat b.mortal c.immigr d.emigr
natal number of birth in a popul dure a given period
mortal it is the number of death in a popul dure a given period
immigr it is the number of individu of the same speci that have come into the habitat
the figur of fluctuat in popul 
growth model a.exponenti growth b.logist growth
exponenti growth geometr fasion unlimit resourc
eqn of exponenti growth dn/dt = (b – d) × n dn/dt = rn
r in dn/dt = rn intrins rate of natur increas is a import paramet for access impact of ani biotic or abiot factor
r for norway rat 0.015
r for flour beetl 0.12
r for human popul in india 0.0205
integr  of exponenti growth nt = n o ert
logist growth fittest surviv and reproduc
carri capac in natur ,a given habitat has enough resourc to support a maximum possibl number .beyond which no further growth is possibl
verhulst-pearl logist growth intiali a lag phase ,follow by phase of acceler and deceler and final asymptote,when the popul reach the carri capac
eqn of logist growth [sound:rec1455285875.mp3]
popul growth curv 
onc breeder pacif salmon fish ,bamboo
small size offspr oyster and pelag fish small number larg offspr bring ,mammal
popul interact -mutual -competit -parasit -predat -commens -amens
predat all carnivor herbivor and 25%phytophag
import of the predat the prick pear cactus.th cactus feed predat was indroduc moth in auatralia when cactus is remov from american pacif coast
the defens of insect and frog camouflag (cryptic cloured) to avoid be detect by the predat
the monarch butterfli is high distast to it predat due to a special chemic in it bodi .bi feed on poison weed
defens of plant thorn acacia,cactus
calotropi a weed grow in abondon field produc high poison cardiac glycosid
use defens nicotine,caffein ,quinine,strychinen ,opium etc
competit is a potent forc in organ evolut process in which fit of one speci is signific lower in presenc of anoth species.
what occur in interfer competit even resourc is abund the presenc of speci feed effici is reduc due to the interf and inhibitari presenc
unrel competit flamingo and fish compet for zooplankton in south american shallow lake
the abingdon and goat in galapoga
competit releas a speci restrict to a small geograph area due to superior ,expand it distribut rang when the competit speci is experimentali remov
eg for competit releas connel field experi rockyy sea coasr of scotland the larger and compertit superior barnacl balanus domin interrid area ,and exclud the smaller barnacl chathamalus from the zone
gaus competit exclus principl it state that two close relat speci comper for the same resourc cannot co exist indefinit and the competitv inferior one will be elimin eventualy.
resourc partit if 2 speci compet for the same resourc they could avoid competit by choos differ time for feed or differ forag pattern
eg for resourc partit macarthur warbler of same speci can surviv in same tree differ in forag ities.
adapt of parasit loss of sens organ ,presenc of adhes organs,suck to cling on to the host , loss of digest system,high reproduct capacity.
eg for parasit human liver fluke depend on 2 intermedi host snail and fish to complet it life cycl malari need mosquitoes.
ecto parasit lice on huma and tick on dogs, cuscuta on hedg plants,lost it chlorophyl femal mosquito need blood for reproduct but not parasit
commens eg orchid growin as epiphyt on a mango branch -barnacl grow on the back of a whale -cattl egret and graze cattl -sea anemon and clown fish
eg for mutual lichen mycorrhizaeo fungi and root
mutual b/w plant and anim fig tree and wasp -orchid shoe divers of floral pattern bee and bumbl bee -sexual deceit of ophri one petal of it flower resembl femal bee in size and colour -pseudocopulation.
structur of a virus: [...] enclos in a protein coat and possibl surround by a membran envelop structur of a virus: nucleic acid enclos in a protein coat and possibl surround by a membran envelop
structur of a virus: nucleic acid enclos in a [...] and possibl surround by a membran envelop structur of a virus: nucleic acid enclos in a protein coat and possibl surround by a membran envelop
structur of a virus: nucleic acid enclos in a protein coat and possibl surround by a [...] structur of a virus: nucleic acid enclos in a protein coat and possibl surround by a membran envelop
capsid protein shell enclos viral genom
protein shell enclos viral genom capsid
capsomer protein subunit compos capsid
protein subunit compos capsid capsomer
 helic virus
 icosahedr capsid (glycoprotein spikes)
 viral envelop
bacteriophag virus that infect bacteria
virus that infect bacteria bacteriophag
 bacteriophag (complex capsid)
bacteriophag (complex capsid) 
lytic cycl of a virus: 1. [...] 2. inject of phage dna and hydrolysi of host dna 3. synthesi of viral genom and protein 4. protein self-assembl to  heads, tails, tail fiber 5. product of ezym that burst cell wall and releas phage lytic cycl of a virus: 1. attach of tail fiber to receptor site 2. inject of phage dna and hydrolysi of host dna 3. synthesi of viral genom and protein 4. protein self-assembl to  heads, tails, tail fiber 5. product of ezym that burst cell wall and releas phage
lytic cycl of a virus: 1. attach of tail fiber to receptor site 2. [...] 3. synthesi of viral genom and protein 4. protein self-assembl to  heads, tails, tail fiber 5. product of ezym that burst cell wall and releas phage lytic cycl of a virus: 1. attach of tail fiber to receptor site 2. inject of phage dna and hydrolysi of host dna 3. synthesi of viral genom and protein 4. protein self-assembl to  heads, tails, tail fiber 5. product of ezym that burst cell wall and releas phage
lytic cycl of a virus: 1. attach of tail fiber to receptor site 2. inject of phage dna and hydrolysi of host dna 3. [...] 4. protein self-assembl to  heads, tails, tail fiber 5. product of ezym that burst cell wall and releas phage lytic cycl of a virus: 1. attach of tail fiber to receptor site 2. inject of phage dna and hydrolysi of host dna 3. synthesi of viral genom and protein 4. protein self-assembl to  heads, tails, tail fiber 5. product of ezym that burst cell wall and releas phage
lytic cycl of a virus: 1. attach of tail fiber to receptor site 2. inject of phage dna and hydrolysi of host dna 3. synthesi of viral genom and protein 4. [...] 5. product of ezym that burst cell wall and releas phage lytic cycl of a virus: 1. attach of tail fiber to receptor site 2. inject of phage dna and hydrolysi of host dna 3. synthesi of viral genom and protein 4. protein self-assembl to  heads, tails, tail fiber 5. product of ezym that burst cell wall and releas phage
lytic cycl of a virus: 1. attach of tail fiber to receptor site 2. inject of phage dna and hydrolysi of host dna 3. synthesi of viral genom and protein 4. protein self-assembl to  heads, tails, tail fiber 5. [...] lytic cycl of a virus: 1. attach of tail fiber to receptor site 2. inject of phage dna and hydrolysi of host dna 3. synthesi of viral genom and protein 4. protein self-assembl to  heads, tails, tail fiber 5. product of ezym that burst cell wall and releas phage
lytic cycl replic cycl that  in death of the host
replic cycl that  in death of the host lytic cycl
virul phage replic onli by the lytic cycl
replic onli by the lytic cycl virul phage
restrict enzym bacteri enzym that identifi and destroy foreign dna, limit attack abil of phage
bacteri enzym that identifi and destroy foreign dna, limit attack abil of phage restrict enzym
lysogen cycl allow replic of phage without destroy host
allow replic of phage without destroy host lysogen cycl
temper phage phage capabl of replic through both the lytic and lysogen cycl
phage capabl of replic through both the lytic and lysogen cycl temper phage
prophag viral dna integr into a bacteri chromosom
viral dna integr into a bacteri chromosom prophag
pleas edit this note and add some cloze deletions. ( help ) 
cocci spheric prokaryot
spheric prokaryot cocci
bacilli rod-shap prokaryot
rod-shap prokaryot bacilli
spirilla helic prokaryot
helic prokaryot spirilla
strepto- chain of cell
chain of cell strepto-
staphylo- bunch of cell
bunch of cell staphylo-
gram-posit bacteria simpler wall with more peptidoglycan
simpler wall with more peptidoglycan gram-posit bacteria
gram-neg bacteria more complex cell wall with less peptidoglycan, often with toxic lipopolysaccharid on wall and/or greater protect from cellular defens
more complex cell wall with less peptidoglycan, often with toxic lipopolysaccharid on wall and/or greater protect from cellular defens gram-neg bacteria
peptidoglycan polym of modifi sugar cross-link by short polypeptid
polym of modifi sugar cross-link by short polypeptid peptidoglycan
capsul addit protect layer secret by bacteria
addit protect layer secret by bacteria capsul
pili surfac appendag use for adhes to substratum or cohes dure conjug
surfac appendag use for adhes to substratum or cohes dure conjug pili
fimbria hairlik appendag use for adhes
hairlik appendag use for adhes fimbria
taxi direct movement toward or away from stimulus, incl. phototaxi (moths) and chemotaxi (mosquitoes)
direct movement toward or away from stimulus, incl. phototaxi (moths) and chemotaxi (mosquitoes) taxi
plasmid small, independ replic ring of bacteri dna
small, independ replic ring of bacteri dna plasmid
binari fission asexu reproduct of prokaryotes, involv growth and divis into two
asexu reproduct of prokaryotes, involv growth and divis into two binari fission
endospor a copi of a bacteri chromosom surround in a tough multilay structur that allow surviv in extrem condit
a copi of a bacteri chromosom surround in a tough multilay structur that allow surviv in extrem condit endospor
horizont gene transfer the movement of gene from one organ to anoth of a differ species, through transation, transduction, or conjugation.
the movement of gene from one organ to anoth of a differ species, through transation, transduction, or conjugation. horizont gene transfer
trans alter of a prokaryot genom through the uptak of foreign dna from surround
alter of a prokaryot genom through the uptak of foreign dna from surround trans
transduct transfer by phage of one host cell gene to anoth
transfer by phage of one host cell gene to anoth transduct
conjug transfer of dna between two temporarili attach prokaryot cell (alway one-way in bacteria)
transfer of dna between two temporarili attach prokaryot cell (alway one-way in bacteria) conjug
transduct in bacteria: 1. [...] 2. phage protein prevent synthesi of cellular protein and fragment dna 3. fragment of dna with a + allel packag into capsid dure assembl of new phage 4. carrier phage infect a - b - cell; recombin occur between set of dna 5. recombin cell differ from both donor and recipient, with a + b - transduct in bacteria: 1. phage infect bacteri cell with a + and b + allel 2. phage protein prevent synthesi of cellular protein and fragment dna 3. fragment of dna with a + allel packag into capsid dure assembl of new phage 4. carrier phage infect a - b - cell; recombin occur between set of dna 5. recombin cell differ from both donor and recipient, with a + b -
transduct in bacteria: 1. phage infect bacteri cell with a + and b + allel 2. [...] 3. fragment of dna with a + allel packag into capsid dure assembl of new phage 4. carrier phage infect a - b - cell; recombin occur between set of dna 5. recombin cell differ from both donor and recipient, with a + b - transduct in bacteria: 1. phage infect bacteri cell with a + and b + allel 2. phage protein prevent synthesi of cellular protein and fragment dna 3. fragment of dna with a + allel packag into capsid dure assembl of new phage 4. carrier phage infect a - b - cell; recombin occur between set of dna 5. recombin cell differ from both donor and recipient, with a + b -
transduct in bacteria: 1. phage infect bacteri cell with a + and b + allel 2. phage protein prevent synthesi of cellular protein and fragment dna 3. [...] 4. carrier phage infect a - b - cell; recombin occur between set of dna 5. recombin cell differ from both donor and recipient, with a + b - transduct in bacteria: 1. phage infect bacteri cell with a + and b + allel 2. phage protein prevent synthesi of cellular protein and fragment dna 3. fragment of dna with a + allel packag into capsid dure assembl of new phage 4. carrier phage infect a - b - cell; recombin occur between set of dna 5. recombin cell differ from both donor and recipient, with a + b -
transduct in bacteria: 1. phage infect bacteri cell with a + and b + allel 2. phage protein prevent synthesi of cellular protein and fragment dna 3. fragment of dna with a + allel packag into capsid dure assembl of new phage 4. [...] 5. recombin cell differ from both donor and recipient, with a + b - transduct in bacteria: 1. phage infect bacteri cell with a + and b + allel 2. phage protein prevent synthesi of cellular protein and fragment dna 3. fragment of dna with a + allel packag into capsid dure assembl of new phage 4. carrier phage infect a - b - cell; recombin occur between set of dna 5. recombin cell differ from both donor and recipient, with a + b -
transduct in bacteria: 1. phage infect bacteri cell with a + and b + allel 2. phage protein prevent synthesi of cellular protein and fragment dna 3. fragment of dna with a + allel packag into capsid dure assembl of new phage 4. carrier phage infect a - b - cell; recombin occur between set of dna 5. [...] transduct in bacteria: 1. phage infect bacteri cell with a + and b + allel 2. phage protein prevent synthesi of cellular protein and fragment dna 3. fragment of dna with a + allel packag into capsid dure assembl of new phage 4. carrier phage infect a - b - cell; recombin occur between set of dna 5. recombin cell differ from both donor and recipient, with a + b -
r plasmid plasmid carri gene that code for antibiotic-fight enzym
plasmid carri gene that code for antibiotic-fight enzym r plasmid
oblig aerob must use o 2 for cellular respir
must use o 2 for cellular respir oblig aerob
oblig anaerob poison by o 2
poison by o 2 oblig anaerob
anaerob respir substanc other than o 2 accept electron at end of etc
substanc other than o 2 accept electron at end of etc anaerob respir
facult anaerob use o 2 if present, but can also carri out ferment or anaerob respir
use o 2 if present, but can also carri out ferment or anaerob respir facult anaerob
nitrogen fixat convers of atmospher nitrogen to ammonia for incorpor into organ compound
convers of atmospher nitrogen to ammonia for incorpor into organ compound nitrogen fixat
heterocyst cell special for nitrogen fixation, surround by cell wall that restrict entri of o 2 but allow exchang of fix nitrogen and carbohydr
cell special for nitrogen fixation, surround by cell wall that restrict entri of o 2 but allow exchang of fix nitrogen and carbohydr heterocyst
extrem halophil live in high salin environ
live in high salin environ extrem halophil
extrem thermophil live in veri hot environ
live in veri hot environ extrem thermophil
methanogen strict anaerob archaea; releas methan as a byproduct of the oxid of h 2
strict anaerob archaea; releas methan as a byproduct of the oxid of h 2 methanogen
exotoxin toxic protein secret by certain pathogen prokaryot
toxic protein secret by certain pathogen prokaryot exotoxin
whi there is mani biom due to the differ in the precipit
endotoxin liposaccharid compon of gram-neg cell wall releas onli with the breakdown of cell wall after death
liposaccharid compon of gram-neg cell wall releas onli with the breakdown of cell wall after death endotoxin
polym molecul that consist of a singl monom repeat mani time
molecul that consist of a singl monom repeat mani time polym
hydroxyl (structure) 
 hydroxyl (structure)
hydroxyl (examples) alcohols, glycerol, sugar
alcohols, glycerol, sugar hydroxyl (examples)
carboxyl (structure) 
 carboxyl (structure)
carboxyl (examples) acet acid, amino acids, fatti acids, sugar
acet acid, amino acids, fatti acids, sugar carboxyl (examples)
amino (structure) 
 amino (structure)
phosphat (structure) 
 phosphat (structure)
phosphat (examples) dna, atp, phospholipid
dna, atp, phospholipid phosphat (examples)
methyl (structure) 
 methyl (structure)
methyl (examples) fatti acids, oils, wax
fatti acids, oils, wax methyl (examples)
monosaccharid carbohydr compos of a singl sugar molecul (e.g. glucose, fructose)
disaccharid carbohydr compos of two sugar molecul join by glycosid linkag (water molecul lost), e.g. sucros
condensation/dehydr reaction liber of hydrogen from one molecul and hydroxid from another,  h2o.
hydrolysi split of a molecul through the addit of water
polysaccharid seri of connect monosaccharides, e.g. starch, glycogen, cellulose, chitin
seri of connect monosaccharides, e.g. starch, glycogen, cellulose, chitin polysaccharid
liber of water to join two molecul condensation/dehydr reaction
split a molecul through the addit of water hydrolysi
fatti acid (structure) 
 fatti acid (structure)
triglycerid three fatti acid attach to glycerol molecul
three fatti acid attach to glycerol molecul triglycerid
phospholipid 
 phospholipid
steroid (structure) 
 steroid (structure)
where pisast is seen american pacif coast
defensin polypeptid produc by white blood cell to break bacteri cell wall
polypeptid produc by white blood cell to break bacteri cell wall defensin
collectin caus pathogen to clump together, allow white blood cell to detect them more easili
caus pathogen to clump together, allow white blood cell to detect them more easili collectin
compliment system when stimul by the presenc of invaders, enzym cascad  protein to  membran attack complex
when stimul by the presenc of invaders, enzym cascad  protein to  membran attack complex compliment system
histamin caus capillari to leak plasma and white blood cell
caus capillari to leak plasma and white blood cell histamin
neutrophil digest microorgan in the blood, esp. parasites; 50-70% of white blood cell population, can creep out of capillari slit
digest microorgan in the blood, esp. parasites; 50-70% of white blood cell population, can creep out of capillari slit neutrophil
macrophag use cytoplasm extens to lasso and ingest pathogen
use cytoplasm extens to lasso and ingest pathogen macrophag
natur killer cell attack and kill infect cell with cytoplasm sword
attack and kill infect cell with cytoplasm sword natur killer cell
lymph node where white blood cell ambush pathogens; includ tonsils, spleen
where white blood cell ambush pathogens; includ tonsils, spleen lymph node
b cell produc in bone marrow and enter general circul
produc in bone marrow and enter general circul b cell
t cell produc in bone marrow, then migrat to thymus where they matur and learn to recogn pathogen
produc in bone marrow, then migrat to thymus where they matur and learn to recogn pathogen t cell
antigen antibodi generator; ani foreign molecul recogn by immun cell
antibodi generator; ani foreign molecul recogn by immun cell antigen
antigen (examples) bee venom, allergens, bacteri cell walls, viral particl
bee venom, allergens, bacteri cell walls, viral particl antigen (examples)
antibodi y-shape protein that bond to specif antigen to  movement or clump together; produc by plasma cell
y-shape protein that bond to specif antigen to  movement or clump together; produc by plasma cell antibodi
major histocompat complex allow recognit of cell by immun system; in macrophage,  fragment of antigen for recognit by t cell
allow recognit of cell by immun system; in macrophage,  fragment of antigen for recognit by t cell major histocompat complex
cellular immun respons macrophag eat pathogen, then  antigen on surfac to  t cell
macrophag eat pathogen, then  antigen on surfac to  t cell cellular immun respons
helper t cell sens shape of antigen on macrophage; replic and produc interleukin i and ii to  and stimul mitosi of other t cell
sens shape of antigen on macrophage; replic and produc interleukin i and ii to  and stimul mitosi of other t cell helper t cell
cytotox t cell kill infect bodi cell by punctur membran
kill infect bodi cell by punctur membran cytotox t cell
memori t cell rememb antigen and if expos to it again rapid divid into cytotox t cell
rememb antigen and if expos to it again rapid divid into cytotox t cell memori t cell
humor immun respons il-ii stimul divis of b cells, which matur into plasma cell to produc antibodi and memori cell
il-ii stimul divis of b cells, which matur into plasma cell to produc antibodi and memori cell humor immun respons
mast cell acquir antibodi produc by plasma cell and becom sensit to allergen in allerg respons
acquir antibodi produc by plasma cell and becom sensit to allergen in allerg respons mast cell
mast cell acquir antibodi produc by plasma cell and becom sensit to allergen in allerg respons
acquir antibodi produc by plasma cell and becom sensit to allergen in allerg respons mast cell
hydrophob effect dure protein synthesis, hydrophob r group move toward center of protein
dure protein synthesis, hydrophob r group move toward center of protein hydrophob effect
disulfid bond occur when sulfur atom in cystein amino acid bond to each other dure protein synthesis, help polypeptid maintain fold
occur when sulfur atom in cystein amino acid bond to each other dure protein synthesis, help polypeptid maintain fold disulfid bond
metabol chemic reaction that occur in biolog system
chemic reaction that occur in biolog system metabol
catabol the break down of substanc
the break down of substanc catabol
anabol the at of new product
the at of new product anabol
enzym globular protein that act as catalyst for metabol reaction
globular protein that act as catalyst for metabol reaction enzym
substrat specif substac on which an enzym act
specif substac on which an enzym act substrat
denatur loss of shape as hydrogen bond and peptid bond begin to break down
loss of shape as hydrogen bond and peptid bond begin to break down denatur
induc fit model interact of reactant and enzym  site caus enzym to chang shape to allow reaction
interact of reactant and enzym  site caus enzym to chang shape to allow reaction induc fit model
cofactor nonprotein molecul that assist enzym
nonprotein molecul that assist enzym cofactor
coenzym organ cofactor that usual donat or accept compon of reaction
organ cofactor that usual donat or accept compon of reaction coenzym
phosphoryl reassembl of atp from adp and inorgan phosphat
reassembl of atp from adp and inorgan phosphat phosphoryl
alloster effector molecul that bond to enzym to regul chemic reaction
molecul that bond to enzym to regul chemic reaction alloster effector
alloster   to enzym and induc enzym  
 to enzym and induc enzym   alloster 
alloster inhibitor  to enzym and induc inact 
 to enzym and induc inact  alloster inhibitor
feedback inhibit end product of seri of reaction serv as alloster inhibitor
end product of seri of reaction serv as alloster inhibitor feedback inhibit
competit inhibit substanc that mimic substrat bond to enzym and prevent reaction
substanc that mimic substrat bond to enzym and prevent reaction competit inhibit
noncompetit inhibit substanc inhibit action of enzym by bond to it in locat other than  site
substanc inhibit action of enzym by bond to it in locat other than  site noncompetit inhibit
cooper in enzym enzym becom more recept to addit substrat after first substrat has bonded, e.g. hemoglobin
enzym becom more recept to addit substrat after first substrat has bonded, e.g. hemoglobin cooper in enzym
plasma membran separ intern metabol event from extern environ and control movement of materi into and out of the cell
separ intern metabol event from extern environ and control movement of materi into and out of the cell plasma membran
fluid mosaic model scatter protein within a flexibl matrix of phospholipid molecul
scatter protein within a flexibl matrix of phospholipid molecul fluid mosaic model
permeabl of plasma membran onli small, uncharg polar molecul and hydrophob molecul can pass across membran
channel protein open passageway through plasma membran for certain hydrophil substanc
aquaporin channel protein for water molecules,  by six alpha helic bundl togeth with posit and negat residu (-, +, -)
ion channel allow passag of ion across plasma membran
gate channel ion channel in nerv and muscl cell that open and close in respons to chemic or electr stimuli to allow passag of specif ion
carrier protein  to specif molecul (e.g. glucose) that are transfer across plasma membran after shape chang
 to specif molecul (e.g. glucose) that are transfer across plasma membran after shape chang carrier protein
transport protein  transport use atp, e.g. sodium-potassium pump
 transport use atp, e.g. sodium-potassium pump transport protein
recognit protein glycoprotein in the plasma membran that identifi the cell to immun system
glycoprotein in the plasma membran that identifi the cell to immun system recognit protein
receptor protein provid  site for hormon and other trigger molecul to induc specif cellular reaction
provid  site for hormon and other trigger molecul to induc specif cellular reaction receptor protein
adhes protein attach cell to each other or provid anchor for intern filament and tubul
attach cell to each other or provid anchor for intern filament and tubul adhes protein
cholesterol molecul in the phospholipid bilay that provid stabil to plasma membran of anim cell
molecul in the phospholipid bilay that provid stabil to plasma membran of anim cell cholesterol
nucleus where genet in is store in the cell
where genet in is store in the cell nucleus
nuclear envelop dual phospholipid bilayer, extend into the endoplasm reticulum
dual phospholipid bilayer, extend into the endoplasm reticulum nuclear envelop
chromatin uncondens dna dure interphas
uncondens dna dure interphas chromatin
chromosom dna packag for replication; two dna molecul plus nucleosom bundl by histom
dna packag for replication; two dna molecul plus nucleosom bundl by histom chromosom
nuclear pore serv as passageway through nuclear envelop for protein and rna molecul
serv as passageway through nuclear envelop for protein and rna molecul nuclear pore
ribosom compris of 60s lrs and 40s srs that assembl into 80s ribosom dure translat
compris of 60s lrs and 40s srs that assembl into 80s ribosom dure translat ribosom
s-valu measur how readili a product  sediment in a centrifug
measur how readili a product  sediment in a centrifug s-valu
rough e.r. stud with site where ribosom can attach dure translation; attach polysaccharid to polypeptid as they are assembl to  glycoprotein
stud with site where ribosom can attach dure translation; attach polysaccharid to polypeptid as they are assembl to  glycoprotein rough e.r.
smooth e.r. synthes lipid and steroids; in liver cells, involv in breakdown of toxin
synthes lipid and steroids; in liver cells, involv in breakdown of toxin smooth e.r.
golgi apparatus collect and modifi protein and lipid made in other part of the cell and packag into vesicl for releas at the cell membran
collect and modifi protein and lipid made in other part of the cell and packag into vesicl for releas at the cell membran golgi apparatus
cisterna flatten sac compris golgi apparatus
flatten sac compris golgi apparatus cisterna
lysosom vesicl from golgi apparatus that contain hydrolyt enzym to break down food, debris, and foreign particl
vesicl from golgi apparatus that contain hydrolyt enzym to break down food, debris, and foreign particl lysosom
peroxisom involv in catabol of organ materi (e.g. fatti acids), which lead to product of hydrogen peroxid as byproduct; catalas contain in organell use to destroy peroxid when job done
involv in catabol of organ materi (e.g. fatti acids), which lead to product of hydrogen peroxid as byproduct; catalas contain in organell use to destroy peroxid when job done peroxisom
mitochondria carri out aerob respir
carri out aerob respir mitochondria
chloroplast carri out photosynthesi
carri out photosynthesi chloroplast
microtubul hollow tubulin structur that provid support and motil for cellular ities; found in spindl apparatus, flagella, and cilia
hollow tubulin structur that provid support and motil for cellular ities; found in spindl apparatus, flagella, and cilia microtubul
intermedi filament supercoil fibrous protein; provid support for maintain the shape of the cell
supercoil fibrous protein; provid support for maintain the shape of the cell intermedi filament
microfila actin filament found in muscl cell and other cell that move through shape changes; involv in cytoplasm stream in plant
actin filament found in muscl cell and other cell that move through shape changes; involv in cytoplasm stream in plant microfila
cytoplasm stream movement of cytoplasm materi around the cell
movement of cytoplasm materi around the cell cytoplasm stream
flagella and cilia 9+2 microtubul pattern; make wave-lik movement
9+2 microtubul pattern; make wave-lik movement flagella and cilia
centriol and basal bodi 9 triplet microtubul pattern; serv as mtoc
9 triplet microtubul pattern; serv as mtoc centriol and basal bodi
centriol pair enclos in centrosom give rise to microtubul of spindl apparatus
pair enclos in centrosom give rise to microtubul of spindl apparatus centriol
basal bodi organ develop of flagella and cilia and anchor to cell surfac
organ develop of flagella and cilia and anchor to cell surfac basal bodi
transport vesicl move materi between organell or between organell and plasma membran
move materi between organell or between organell and plasma membran transport vesicl
food vacuol temporari receptacl of nutrients; often merg with lysosom
temporari receptacl of nutrients; often merg with lysosom food vacuol
contractil vacuol collect and pump excess water out of the cell
collect and pump excess water out of the cell contractil vacuol
central vacuol exert turgor; store starch, nutrients, pigments, waste, toxins; carri out digestion; provid cell growth; provid favor cytoplasm surfac area
exert turgor; store starch, nutrients, pigments, waste, toxins; carri out digestion; provid cell growth; provid favor cytoplasm surfac area central vacuol
cell wall cellulos structur that provid support for plasma membran
cellulos structur that provid support for plasma membran cell wall
extracellular matrix area between adjac cells; contain fibrous structur proteins, adhes proteins, and glycoprotein
area between adjac cells; contain fibrous structur proteins, adhes proteins, and glycoprotein extracellular matrix
anchor junction protein attach between adjac anim cell
protein attach between adjac anim cell anchor junction
desmosom anchor junction that provid mechan stabil to tissues; intermedi filament extend into the cell interior
anchor junction that provid mechan stabil to tissues; intermedi filament extend into the cell interior desmosom
tight junction tight stitch seam between anim cell that prevent the passag of materi between the cell
tight stitch seam between anim cell that prevent the passag of materi between the cell tight junction
communic junction passageway between cell that allow transfer of chemic or electr signal
passageway between cell that allow transfer of chemic or electr signal communic junction
gap junction narrow tunnel between anim cell that allow the passag of ion and small molecul
narrow tunnel between anim cell that allow the passag of ion and small molecul gap junction
plasmodesmata narrow channel between plant cells; narrow tube of e.r. surround by cytoplasm and plasma membran pass through channel
narrow channel between plant cells; narrow tube of e.r. surround by cytoplasm and plasma membran pass through channel plasmodesmata
name three differ between prokaryot and eukaryotes. 1. presenc or absenc of nucleus &amp; membrane-bound organell 2. presenc or absenc of histon complex in dna 3. size of ribosom (70s vs 80s) 4. microtubule-less flagella in prokaryot
hyperton higher concentr of solut
hypoton lower concentr of solut
lower concentr of solut hypoton
isoton equal concentr of solut
equal concentr of solut isoton
bulk flow collect movement of substanc in same direct in respons to forc
collect movement of substanc in same direct in respons to forc bulk flow
passiv transport movement of substanc from higher to lower concentration, without expenditur of atp
movement of substanc from higher to lower concentration, without expenditur of atp passiv transport
turgor hydrostat pressur exert by movement of water into cell
hydrostat pressur exert by movement of water into cell turgor
osmosi diffus of water across semi-perm membran
diffus of water across semi-perm membran osmosi
plasmolysi movement of water out of cell that  in collaps of cell
movement of water out of cell that  in collaps of cell plasmolysi
cell lysi when swell of cell due to osmosi caus it to burst
when swell of cell due to osmosi caus it to burst cell lysi
facilit diffus diffus of solut or water through channel protein or carrier protein in plasma membran
diffus of solut or water through channel protein or carrier protein in plasma membran facilit diffus
countercurr exchang diffus of substanc between two region through which bulk flow in opposit direct
diffus of substanc between two region through which bulk flow in opposit direct countercurr exchang
 transport movement of solut against a gradient, requir expenditur of atp (e.g. na/k pump)
movement of solut against a gradient, requir expenditur of atp (e.g. na/k pump)  transport
exocytosi vesicl releas substanc to exterior of cell
vesicl releas substanc to exterior of cell exocytosi
endocytosi captur of substanc outsid cell in vesicl
captur of substanc outsid cell in vesicl endocytosi
phagocytosi endocytosi of undissolv substanc
endocytosi of undissolv substanc phagocytosi
pinocytosi endocytosi of dissolv substanc
endocytosi of dissolv substanc pinocytosi
receptor-medi endocytosi specif ligand in fluid surround cell  to receptor and caus it to fold inward and  vesicl
specif ligand in fluid surround cell  to receptor and caus it to fold inward and  vesicl receptor-medi endocytosi
first law of thermodynam total amount of energi in univers remain constant
total amount of energi in univers remain constant first law of thermodynam
second law of thermodynam some energi alway lost in energi conversions, usual as heat
some energi alway lost in energi conversions, usual as heat second law of thermodynam
close system consid energi transfer onli among specif item
consid energi transfer onli among specif item close system
open system includ transfer of energi with surround
includ transfer of energi with surround open system
gibb free energi energi in a system avail for convers
energi in a system avail for convers gibb free energi
δg chang in free energi as a  of energi convers
chang in free energi as a  of energi convers δg
exergon reaction negat δg - net releas of free energy, e.g. breakdown of glucos
negat δg - net releas of free energy, e.g. breakdown of glucos exergon reaction
δg of the breakdown of glucos to co 2 and h 2 o -686 kcal/mol
δg for creation of glucos from co 2 and h 2 o 686 kcal/mol
endergon reaction posit δg - requir ad free energi to the reaction
posit δg - requir ad free energi to the reaction endergon reaction
 energi energi requir to contort or destabil reactant to allow reaction; may be lower by presenc of a catalyst
energi requir to contort or destabil reactant to allow reaction; may be lower by presenc of a catalyst  energi
substrate-level phosphoryl occur when phosphat group and associ energi are transfer to adp to  atp
occur when phosphat group and associ energi are transfer to adp to  atp substrate-level phosphoryl
oxid phosphoryl occur when a phosphat group is transfer to adp without the energi to  a bond
occur when a phosphat group is transfer to adp without the energi to  a bond oxid phosphoryl
illustr the process of aerob respiration. 
illustr the process of photosynthesi 
illustr the process of lactic acid ferment 
illustr the process of alcohol ferment 
recombin dna combin of nucleotid sequenc from two differ sourc in vitro
combin of nucleotid sequenc from two differ sourc in vitro recombin dna
gene clone foreign dna insert into plasmid, subsequ into bacteria; reproduct  in clone of plasmid incl. foreign dna
clone vector dna molecul that can carri foreign dna ino host and replic there; usual a plasmid
dna molecul that can carri foreign dna ino host and replic there; usual a plasmid clone vector
genom librari storag of bacteria contain all gene in a given genome; dna may later be denatur and radioact tag
storag of bacteria contain all gene in a given genome; dna may later be denatur and radioact tag genom librari
express vector promot molecul more attract to polymeras molecules, use to ensur bacteria express insert gene
promot molecul more attract to polymeras molecules, use to ensur bacteria express insert gene express vector
electropor appli a brief electr puls to creat temporari hole in plasma membran in order to introduc recombin dna to eukaryot cell
appli a brief electr puls to creat temporari hole in plasma membran in order to introduc recombin dna to eukaryot cell electropor
polymeras chain reaction (pcr) 
 polymeras chain reaction (pcr)
gel electrophoresi use of electr current and gel as molecular siev to separ fragment of dna; sinc dna has an overal negat charg due to to phosphat groups, migrat toward posit electrod of electr current appli
use of electr current and gel as molecular siev to separ fragment of dna; sinc dna has an overal negat charg due to to phosphat groups, migrat toward posit electrod of electr current appli gel electrophoresi
polymorph variat in dna sequenc
variat in dna sequenc polymorph
rflp restrict fragment length polymorph - alter restrict site
restrict fragment length polymorph - alter restrict site rflp
dideoxi chain termin modifi nucleotid tag with fluoresc label to identifi final nucleotid of dna attach to synthes strand of differ length
modifi nucleotid tag with fluoresc label to identifi final nucleotid of dna attach to synthes strand of differ length dideoxi chain termin
describ the characterist of fungi. larg multicellular, heterotrophic, most sapphrophytic, cell wall made of chitin, feed by absorption, alter of generat (typic haploid-dominated), hyphae, mycelium, bud
hypha branch strand of fungal cell end-to-end
branch strand of fungal cell end-to-end hypha
mycelia root-lik strand of bundl fungal hypha
root-lik strand of bundl fungal hypha mycelia
zygomycota mold and mildews; mycorrhiza = symbiot associ with plant root to facilit absorpt of water and nutrient
mold and mildews; mycorrhiza = symbiot associ with plant root to facilit absorpt of water and nutrient zygomycota
ascomycota sac fungi, lichen (mutualist with algae, given singl speci name), some parasit
sac fungi, lichen (mutualist with algae, given singl speci name), some parasit ascomycota
basidiomycota club fungi, shelf fungi, toadstools, mushrooms, puffballs; sexual reproduct domin
club fungi, shelf fungi, toadstools, mushrooms, puffballs; sexual reproduct domin basidiomycota
ectomycorrhiza maxim surfac area for nutrient exchang through fungal hypha between cortic cell of root.
maxim surfac area for nutrient exchang through fungal hypha between cortic cell of root. ectomycorrhiza
arbuscular mycorrhiza fungal hypha extend into cortic cell of root,  arbuscl and fungal vesicl
fungal hypha extend into cortic cell of root,  arbuscl and fungal vesicl arbuscular mycorrhiza
plasmogami cytoplasm fusion in fungi
cytoplasm fusion in fungi plasmogami
karyogami fusion of nuclei in fungi
fusion of nuclei in fungi karyogami
cdna obtain through the use of revers transcriptas to copi dna molecul from a sampl of mrna molecules, not includ introns.
obtain through the use of revers transcriptas to copi dna molecul from a sampl of mrna molecules, not includ introns. cdna
in situ hybrid use fluoresc dye attach to probe to identifi the locat of specif mrnas in place in the intact organ
use fluoresc dye attach to probe to identifi the locat of specif mrnas in place in the intact organ in situ hybrid
dna microarray assay compar pattern of gene express in differ tissues, at differ times, or under differ conditions; fluoresc indic express when cdna appli to microarray with complementari dna
compar pattern of gene express in differ tissues, at differ times, or under differ conditions; fluoresc indic express when cdna appli to microarray with complementari dna dna microarray assay
in vitro mutagenesi mutat introduc into clone gene and return to cell for phenotyp analysi
mutat introduc into clone gene and return to cell for phenotyp analysi in vitro mutagenesi
snp singl nucleotid polymorphism; may indic locat of disease-caus gene
singl nucleotid polymorphism; may indic locat of disease-caus gene snp
totipot capabl of a cell to generat a complet new organ
capabl of a cell to generat a complet new organ totipot
nuclear transplant nucleus of an unfertil egg cell or zygot replac with nucleus of differenti cell
nucleus of an unfertil egg cell or zygot replac with nucleus of differenti cell nuclear transplant
stem cell unspeci cell that can reproduc itself indefinit and differenti into special cells; embryon stem cell can differenti into all cell type
unspeci cell that can reproduc itself indefinit and differenti into special cells; embryon stem cell can differenti into all cell type stem cell
ip cell induc pluripot cells, trans from skin cell through the use of virus to introduc stem cell master regulatori gene
induc pluripot cells, trans from skin cell through the use of virus to introduc stem cell master regulatori gene ip cell
transgen anim made by introduc gene from one speci into genom of anoth
anim made by introduc gene from one speci into genom of anoth transgen
strs short tandem repeats, variat in number of repeat of specif sequence; uniqu to individuals, can be use in forens
short tandem repeats, variat in number of repeat of specif sequence; uniqu to individuals, can be use in forens strs
ti plasmid most common clone vector for plant cell
most common clone vector for plant cell ti plasmid
crista infold of the mitochondria inner membran to maxim surfac area for proton pump and atp synthas complex
infold of the mitochondria inner membran to maxim surfac area for proton pump and atp synthas complex crista
stroma fluid materi fill insid of chloroplast inner membrane; where the calvin cycl occur
fluid materi fill insid of chloroplast inner membrane; where the calvin cycl occur stroma
thylakoid disk of chloroplast contain protein complexes, cytochromes, and other electron carriers; proton accumul in lumen
disk of chloroplast contain protein complexes, cytochromes, and other electron carriers; proton accumul in lumen thylakoid
grana stack of thylakoid in chloroplast
stack of thylakoid in chloroplast grana
neurotransmitt short-liv chemic signal that cross gap junction to bond to specif receptor protein
short-liv chemic signal that cross gap junction to bond to specif receptor protein neurotransmitt
paracrin signal local communication—cel secret substanc absorb by nearbi cell
local communication—cel secret substanc absorb by nearbi cell paracrin signal
ligand signal molecules; first messeng that  to receptor protein in order to induc chang
signal molecules; first messeng that  to receptor protein in order to induc chang ligand
hydrophil ligand  to membran receptor at cell surfac
 to membran receptor at cell surfac hydrophil ligand
hydrophob ligand abl to cross plasma membrane; bond to intracellular receptor
abl to cross plasma membrane; bond to intracellular receptor hydrophob ligand
second messeng molecul that relay signal from initi receptor protein to other molecules; small, nonprotein molecul such as ca 2+ and camp
molecul that relay signal from initi receptor protein to other molecules; small, nonprotein molecul such as ca 2+ and camp second messeng
signal transduct pathway seri of molecular interact that trans extracellular signal into specif cellular respons
seri of molecular interact that trans extracellular signal into specif cellular respons signal transduct pathway
relay/response/substrate/effector protein carri signal respons from receptor protein to other protein to initi cellular respons
carri signal respons from receptor protein to other protein to initi cellular respons relay/response/substrate/effector protein
signal cascad seri of enymat reaction amplifi respons
seri of enymat reaction amplifi respons signal cascad
kinase/phosphoryl cascad signal cascad where each kinas phosphoryl and  in turn to ultim phosphoryl and  a specif protein
signal cascad where each kinas phosphoryl and  in turn to ultim phosphoryl and  a specif protein kinase/phosphoryl cascad
scaffold protein improv effici of signal cascad by hold all particip enzym in close proxim
improv effici of signal cascad by hold all particip enzym in close proxim scaffold protein
protein phosphatas enzym that dephosphoryl substrate, to e.g. termin signal respons in kinas cascad
enzym that dephosphoryl substrate, to e.g. termin signal respons in kinas cascad protein phosphatas
advantag of signal transduct pathway (name 3): amplification/speed, control (all compon must fuction correctly), multipl (singl signal molecul can  multipl pathways, allow coordination)
amplification/speed, control (all compon must fuction correctly), multipl (singl signal molecul can  multipl pathways, allow coordination) advantag of signal transduct pathway (name 3):
describ a gate ion receptor. two types, ligand-g (acetylcholine) and voltage-g ion channels; er caus na+ gate to open for nerv impulse/muscl contraction, latter caus na+ and k+ gate to open for nerv transmission.
acetylcholin transmit nerv impuls between neuron by open ion channel for na+ to chang action potenti
transmit nerv impuls between neuron by open ion channel for na+ to chang action potenti acetylcholin
describ an intracellular receptor cytoplasm or nuclear receptors; steroid hormon (testosterone/estrogen) as ligands;  in e.g. develop of sex characterist
purpos of urinari system (4): remov nitrogen wast from blood, control water balanc in body, secret erythropoietin and renin
in the nephron, [...] caus water and other substanc to leav the glomerulus and enter the space insid bowman capsule. this process is call glomerular filtration. in the nephron, hydrostat pressur caus water and other substanc to leav the glomerulus and enter the space insid bowman capsule. this process is call glomerular filtration.
in the nephron, hydrostat pressur caus water and other substanc to leav the [...] and enter the space insid bowman capsule. this process is call glomerular filtration. in the nephron, hydrostat pressur caus water and other substanc to leav the glomerulus and enter the space insid bowman capsule. this process is call glomerular filtration.
in the nephron, hydrostat pressur caus water and other substanc to leav the glomerulus and enter the space insid [...] . this process is call glomerular filtration. in the nephron, hydrostat pressur caus water and other substanc to leav the glomerulus and enter the space insid bowman capsul . this process is call glomerular filtration.
in the nephron, hydrostat pressur caus water and other substanc to leav the glomerulus and enter the space insid bowman capsule. this process is call [...] . in the nephron, hydrostat pressur caus water and other substanc to leav the glomerulus and enter the space insid bowman capsule. this process is call glomerular filtrat .
in the nephron, as [...] pass through the proxim convolut tubule, substanc such as glucos are brought back into the capillari through reabsorption. as it pass through the distal convolut tubule, tubular secret caus substanc such as nitrogen wast to be transport into the tubul for excretion. in the nephron, as glomerular filtrat pass through the proxim convolut tubule, substanc such as glucos are brought back into the capillari through reabsorption. as it pass through the distal convolut tubule, tubular secret caus substanc such as nitrogen wast to be transport into the tubul for excretion.
in the nephron, as glomerular filtrat pass through the [...] , substanc such as glucos are brought back into the capillari through reabsorption. as it pass through the distal convolut tubule, tubular secret caus substanc such as nitrogen wast to be transport into the tubul for excretion. in the nephron, as glomerular filtrat pass through the proxim convolut tubul , substanc such as glucos are brought back into the capillari through reabsorption. as it pass through the distal convolut tubule, tubular secret caus substanc such as nitrogen wast to be transport into the tubul for excretion.
in the nephron, as glomerular filtrat pass through the proxim convolut tubule, substanc such as glucos are brought back into the capillari through [...] . as it pass through the distal convolut tubule, tubular secret caus substanc such as nitrogen wast to be transport into the tubul for excretion. in the nephron, as glomerular filtrat pass through the proxim convolut tubule, substanc such as glucos are brought back into the capillari through reabsorpt . as it pass through the distal convolut tubule, tubular secret caus substanc such as nitrogen wast to be transport into the tubul for excretion.
in the nephron, as glomerular filtrat pass through the proxim convolut tubule, substanc such as glucos are brought back into the capillari through reabsorption. as it pass through the [...] , tubular secret caus substanc such as nitrogen wast to be transport into the tubul for excretion. in the nephron, as glomerular filtrat pass through the proxim convolut tubule, substanc such as glucos are brought back into the capillari through reabsorption. as it pass through the distal convolut tubul , tubular secret caus substanc such as nitrogen wast to be transport into the tubul for excretion.
in the nephron, as glomerular filtrat pass through the proxim convolut tubule, substanc such as glucos are brought back into the capillari through reabsorption. as it pass through the distal convolut tubule, [...] caus substanc such as nitrogen wast to be transport into the tubul for excretion. in the nephron, as glomerular filtrat pass through the proxim convolut tubule, substanc such as glucos are brought back into the capillari through reabsorption. as it pass through the distal convolut tubule, tubular secret caus substanc such as nitrogen wast to be transport into the tubul for excretion.
describ how the kidney retain water. in the proxim convolut tubule, na+/k+ pump move ion into the capillaries, caus diffus of water into the blood; in the loop of henle, pump in the water imperm side of the loop move ion into the tissue, caus diffus of water from the water permeabl side into collect ducts.
explain the renin-angiotensin system. decreas blood pressur and/or sodium ion concentr stimul secret of renin and angiotensin-convert enzym (ace), which convert angiotensinogen to angiotensin ii, which stimul the product of aldosteron to preserv water.
cholera waterborn bacteria secret a toxin that prevent the de of gcprs,  in continu generat of camp, transport of cl-, and osmosi of water into lumen of intestine, caus diarrhea and potenti fatal dehydration.
cancer damag protein 53 (product of p53 transcript factor) prevent dna surveil and apoptosi of damag cells, lead to uncontrol replic and prolifer of malign cells; begin with transation/mutation, then prolifer into tumor, becom invasive/malign and start interf with normal function, may metastat and spread through bloodstream
nonvascular plant no xylem or phloem, e.g. moss
no xylem or phloem, e.g. moss nonvascular plant
vascular plant possess xylem and phloem for conduct water and photosynthesi product
possess xylem and phloem for conduct water and photosynthesi product vascular plant
lower vascular plant reproduc use spores, e.g. fern
reproduc use spores, e.g. fern lower vascular plant
higher vascular plant reproduc use seed
reproduc use seed higher vascular plant
gymnosperm don't produc flowers, "nake seeds," e.g. pine
don't produc flowers, "nake seeds," e.g. pine gymnosperm
angiosperm produc flower
produc flower angiosperm
monocot one seed-leaf, e.g. grass
one seed-leaf, e.g. grass monocot
eudicot two seed-leaves, e.g. oak
two seed-leaves, e.g. oak eudicot
root hair extens of a plant epiderm cell into it substrat to increas the absorb surfac area
extens of a plant epiderm cell into it substrat to increas the absorb surfac area root hair
mycorrhiza mutualist associ of fungi that absorb water and nutrient with plant that provid the fungus with sugar
mutualist associ of fungi that absorb water and nutrient with plant that provid the fungus with sugar mycorrhiza
palisad mesophyl tight pack vertic cell at leaf surface, where most photosynthesi take place.
tight pack vertic cell at leaf surface, where most photosynthesi take place. palisad mesophyl
spongi mesophyl loos arrang photosynthet cell with space to allow gas exchang
loos arrang photosynthet cell with space to allow gas exchang spongi mesophyl
stomata open in epidermi of leav to allow co2 to enter and o2 to exit.
open in epidermi of leav to allow co2 to enter and o2 to exit. stomata
transpir loss of water through evapor
loss of water through evapor transpir
cuticl waxi cover of leaf to reduc transpir
waxi cover of leaf to reduc transpir cuticl
guard cell control open and close of stomata to prevent excess transpir in dri environments; when light sensed, h+ pump out of guard cell and ion (k+/cl-) migrat in, follow by water.
control open and close of stomata to prevent excess transpir in dri environments; when light sensed, h+ pump out of guard cell and ion (k+/cl-) migrat in, follow by water. guard cell
sunken stomata stomata that occur in depress below the surround leaf surfac to reduc transpir caus by movement of wind
stomata that occur in depress below the surround leaf surfac to reduc transpir caus by movement of wind sunken stomata
trichom plant hair that can interfer with air movement, increas solar reflection, reduc browsing, and discourag egg laying; if glandular, may secret toxic substanc
plant hair that can interfer with air movement, increas solar reflection, reduc browsing, and discourag egg laying; if glandular, may secret toxic substanc trichom
flower reproduct organ that produc gamet (egg and pollen) and allow pollen to be transport to other flower
reproduct organ that produc gamet (egg and pollen) and allow pollen to be transport to other flower flower
xylem transport water and miner and provid mechan support to vascular plants; column of larg dead cell with open at either end
transport water and miner and provid mechan support to vascular plants; column of larg dead cell with open at either end xylem
phloem transport product of photosynthesis, e.g. sugars; live cell with pore act as fluid-conduct column
transport product of photosynthesis, e.g. sugars; live cell with pore act as fluid-conduct column phloem
apic meristem where plant put on length-wis growth
where plant put on length-wis growth apic meristem
describ the princip tenet of cohesion-tens theori • transpir remov water from leav • adhes of water to xylem wall prevent it from descend under graviti • cohes of water produc singl polymer-lik water column • tension caus the movement of water to replac evapor molecul
ethylen gas produc by ripen fruit and fill intercellular air spaces, which promot enzymat breakdown
describ phototrop in plants. auxin produc in apic meristem, move down shoot and generat growth by  proton pump which decreas ph to  an enzym that break down connect between cellulos fiber which increas absorpt of water and therefor turgor; when apic meristem uneven lit, auxin collect on shadi side and caus more growth on that side, caus plant to bend toward light source.
describ gravitrop in plants. amyloplast sink to the bottom of cell and may be involved; auxin is also like involv (caus horizont stem to grow up, etc.).
describ dormanc in plants. • abcission: photosynthesi shut down and leav drop dure winter, with resourc withdrawn first (e.g. chlorophyll); apic meristem protect with bud scale • seed dormancy: absenc of water in seed arrest metabol ity, prevent germination; seed coat protect embryo and nutrit materi from organ (incl. microbes)
describ seed germin and the break of dormanc in plants. water necessari to  enzym that stimul cellular respiration, oxygen requir for aerob respiration, gibberellin provid enzym necessari to germination; temperature, fire, photoperiods, and scarif sometim act as stimuli.
gibberellin plant hormon that  to dna and releas transcript factor to  gene produc enzym necessari for germination.
plant hormon that  to dna and releas transcript factor to  gene produc enzym necessari for germination. gibberellin
describ the mainten of the circadian rhythm in plants. p r and p fr are photoreversible; p r synthes by plant cell convert to p fr when expos to red light; p fr , or   of p r , convert back to p r when expos to far-r light. p fr accumul dure the day, and p r accumul at night; night length respons for reset circadian-rhythm clock through ratio of p r to p fr
list the three type of flower plants. • long-day plants: flower in spring and earli summer; flower when daylight exceed defin length • short-day plants: flower in late summer and earli fall; flower when daylight is less than defin length • day-neutr plants: flower in respons to environment cue such as temperatur or water
describ structur defens of plants. sharp thorns/spines, irrit trichomes, glandular trichomes, tree bark, seed coat
describ chemic defens of plants. secondari metabolit to discourag browsing, includ nicotin (tobacco), capsicum (hot peppers), mustard oil (broccoli), all toxic to insects. mani metabolit toxic onli after digestion.
describ symbiot defens of plants. parasitoid wasp recruit to attack brows insect that releas attract chemicals; volatil substanc produc warn neighbor plants; certain acacia employ ant to attack browser and trim shade plants.
describ wound respons in plants. • systemin hormon produc in respons to saliva of insect, distribut through plant via phloem, and elicit product of proteinas inhibitor that in digest enzym in insect gut • in hypersensit response, pathogen invas spur apoptosi for contain when r protein of plant  to protein of pathogen.
cytokinesi in plant vs. anim plant - vesicl from golgi bodi migrat to metaphas plate and fuse to  cell plate anim - microfila  ring insid plasma membran and tighten, cleavag furrow divid cell in two
list the phase of the cell cycle. g0 - exit from cell cycl g1 - growth s - duplic of dna and growth g2 - prepar for cell divis and growth m - prophase, metaphase, anaphase, telophase, cytokinesi
pleas edit this note and add some cloze deletions. ( help ) 
wavelength of light plant can use for photosynthesi 680 and 700 nm; ps ii use 680, ps i use 700
whi did plant have to adapt to terrestri life photosynthesi requir red light; not enough dissolv gase
evid for evolut of plant from green alga chlorophyl b, storag of energi in starch, cellulose, chloroplast structur and dna, mitot divis
plant adapt to terrestri life multicellular (larg size advantag in unstabl terrestri environment), stomata and guard cell (allow gas exchang with deep tissu and prevent of dehydration), cuticl (reduc transpiration), root (absorpt from soil), lignin (protein that  togeth cellulos fiber and harden cell wall to resist gravit force)
apoplast transport water to xylem through linkag in cell wall
transport water to xylem through linkag in cell wall apoplast
symplast transport water to xylem through plasmodesmata
transport water to xylem through plasmodesmata symplast
describ the two function limit on cell size that influenc division. • surface-to-volum ratio: when exchang of substanc with inner cell becom difficult • genome-to-volum ratio: when genom can't produc enough materi to regul cellular 
describ the three major checkpoint of the cell cycle. • g 1 checkpoint: at end of g 1 phase, qualiti of dna evalu and repair attempt or apoptosi triggered; if nutrients/growth factor absent, remain in g 1 until condit appropri • g 2 checkpoint: at end of g 2 phase, replic accuraci evalu and instruct given to begin mitosis/repair dna/initi apoptosi • m checkpoint: dure metaphase, ensur microtubul proper attach to kinetochor at metaphas plate befor divis continu
cyclin-depend kinas (cdks) kinas that phosphoryl protein to advanc cell past checkpoint;  by specif cyclin that are destroy after checkpoint pass (vari throughout cycle); e.g. mitosis-promot factor or mpf is complex that allow cell to pass through g 2 checkpoint to enter mitosis.
kinas that phosphoryl protein to advanc cell past checkpoint;  by specif cyclin that are destroy after checkpoint pass (vari throughout cycle); e.g. mitosis-promot factor or mpf is complex that allow cell to pass through g 2 checkpoint to enter mitosis. cyclin-depend kinas (cdks)
describ the extern factor that influenc the cell cycle. • growth factors:  to plasma membran of specif cell and stimul division, e.g. platelet-deriv growth factor stimlat divis of fibroblast for scab • density-depend inhibition: cell may stop divid when surround cell densiti reach certain maximum • anchorag dependence: cell onli divid when attach to extern surface, e.g. neighbor cell
law of segreg chromatid migrat to opposit pole dure meiosi ii, so each gamet contain onli one copi of a chromosom
chromatid migrat to opposit pole dure meiosi ii, so each gamet contain onli one copi of a chromosom law of segreg
law of independ assort migrat of homologu in one pair doe not influenc migrat in other homolog pair dure meiosis, so each trait determin independ (not true with loci physic close together)
migrat of homologu in one pair doe not influenc migrat in other homolog pair dure meiosis, so each trait determin independ (not true with loci physic close together) law of independ assort
monohybrid cross onli one trait is be investig
onli one trait is be investig monohybrid cross
dihybrid cross two trait investig in a cross.
two trait investig in a cross. dihybrid cross
complet domin vs. incomplet domin vs. codomin one trait, blend of both traits, or both trait simultan expressed, respect
polygen inherit interact of mani gene to shape singl phenotyp
interact of mani gene to shape singl phenotyp polygen inherit
follicle-stimul hormon (fsh) produc by pituitary; stimul growth and develop of follicl in ovari
produc by pituitary; stimul growth and develop of follicl in ovari follicle-stimul hormon (fsh)
estrogen produc by wall of follicl in ovari to allow brain to determin size of follicl
produc by wall of follicl in ovari to allow brain to determin size of follicl estrogen
lutein hormon (lh) produc by brain to stimul ovul and expuls of develop follicl and subsequ develop of corpus luteum
produc by brain to stimul ovul and expuls of develop follicl and subsequ develop of corpus luteum lutein hormon (lh)
progesteron produc by corpus luteum to stop the product of fsh in the pituitari and caus thicken of the endometrium in the uterus for the embryo to parasit
produc by corpus luteum to stop the product of fsh in the pituitari and caus thicken of the endometrium in the uterus for the embryo to parasit progesteron
autosom non-sex chromosomes.
non-sex chromosomes. autosom
barr bodi x-in occur when one x chromosom doesn't uncoil into chromatin but remain condensed; daughter cell have same chromosom in - this is whi women are stripey
x-in occur when one x chromosom doesn't uncoil into chromatin but remain condensed; daughter cell have same chromosom in - this is whi women are stripey barr bodi
nondisjunct failur of one or more chromosom pair or chromatid of singl chromosom to proper move to opposit pole
failur of one or more chromosom pair or chromatid of singl chromosom to proper move to opposit pole nondisjunct
mosaic fraction of bodi cell have miss or extra chromosom due to nondisjunct dure meiosi
fraction of bodi cell have miss or extra chromosom due to nondisjunct dure meiosi mosaic
polyploidi occur when all chromosom undergo meiotic nondisjunct and produ gamet with twice usual number of chromosomes; tetraploid individu cannot interbre with their origin speci becaus triploidi is fatal
occur when all chromosom undergo meiotic nondisjunct and produ gamet with twice usual number of chromosomes; tetraploid individu cannot interbre with their origin speci becaus triploidi is fatal polyploidi
point mutat singl nucleotid in dna incorrect; substitution, deletion, or insert
singl nucleotid in dna incorrect; substitution, deletion, or insert point mutat
sickle-cel diseas nucleotid substitut produc defect hemoglobin (oxygen-carri protein), which caus de of red blood cell in low-oxygen conditions, prevent movement through capillaries, and caus anemia; however, heterozygot advantag mean individu heterozyg for sickle-cel gene resist to malaria
nucleotid substitut produc defect hemoglobin (oxygen-carri protein), which caus de of red blood cell in low-oxygen conditions, prevent movement through capillaries, and caus anemia; however, heterozygot advantag mean individu heterozyg for sickle-cel gene resist to malaria sickle-cel diseas
tay-sach diseas nucleotid insert caus lysosom to lack enzym necessari to break down certain fats, caus buildup in nerv cell and earli death
nucleotid insert caus lysosom to lack enzym necessari to break down certain fats, caus buildup in nerv cell and earli death tay-sach diseas
aneuploidi genom with extra or miss chromosomes, usual caus by nondisjunct
genom with extra or miss chromosomes, usual caus by nondisjunct aneuploidi
down syndrom gamet with extra chromosom 21 fuse with normal gamete,  in trisomi 21 and mental and physic issu
gamet with extra chromosom 21 fuse with normal gamete,  in trisomi 21 and mental and physic issu down syndrom
turner syndrom nondisjunct of sex chromosom  in gamet with no sex chromosom fuse with x gamet to  xo zygot (steril female; physic abnormalities)
nondisjunct of sex chromosom  in gamet with no sex chromosom fuse with x gamet to  xo zygot (steril female; physic abnormalities) turner syndrom
klinefelt syndrom nondisjunct  in xx or xy gamet that fuse with x gamet to produc xxi gamet (male, may be steril and express femal secondari sex characteristics)
nondisjunct  in xx or xy gamet that fuse with x gamet to produc xxi gamet (male, may be steril and express femal secondari sex characteristics) klinefelt syndrom
chromosom duplic (&amp; example) chromosom segment repeat on same chromosome, e.g. huntington diseas code for defect enzym that caus death of nerv cell in brain
chromosom segment repeat on same chromosome, e.g. huntington diseas code for defect enzym that caus death of nerv cell in brain chromosom duplic (&amp; example)
chromosom invers chromosom segment rearranged; usual no abnorm
chromosom segment rearranged; usual no abnorm chromosom invers
chromosom transloc segment of chromosom move to other chromosome; e.g. down syndrom can also occur with 14/21 (to 14 from 21) translocation.
segment of chromosom move to other chromosome; e.g. down syndrom can also occur with 14/21 (to 14 from 21) translocation. chromosom transloc
matern inherit mitochrondr or chloroplast dna inherit from mother through organell in gamet
mitochrondr or chloroplast dna inherit from mother through organell in gamet matern inherit
give three exampl of environment influenc on phenotyp expression. nutrit (e.g. insuffici calcium), temperatur (incub determin sex), day length/uv exposur (darker coloration)
frederick griffith discov trans between bacteria by mix dead disease-caus bacteria and live innocu bacteria.
discov trans between bacteria by mix dead disease-caus bacteria and live innocu bacteria. frederick griffith
avery, macleod, and mccarti through experi on tran in bacteria, determin dna to in hered
through experi on tran in bacteria, determin dna to in hered avery, macleod, and mccarti
hershey and chase establish that dna was genet materi of phage by insert radioact materi in phage proteins, then phage dna, discov that dna enter bacteria
establish that dna was genet materi of phage by insert radioact materi in phage proteins, then phage dna, discov that dna enter bacteria hershey and chase
watson, crick, wilkins, and franklin determin the structur of dna through franklin x-ray crystallographi and watson and crick model-building.
determin the structur of dna through franklin x-ray crystallographi and watson and crick model-building. watson, crick, wilkins, and franklin
semiconserv replic both product of dna replic contain one strand of origin molecul and one new strand
both product of dna replic contain one strand of origin molecul and one new strand semiconserv replic
helicas unwind dna helix to  y-shape replic fork
unwind dna helix to  y-shape replic fork helicas
single-strand  protein attach to each strand of uncoil dna at replic fork to keep strand separ
attach to each strand of uncoil dna at replic fork to keep strand separ single-strand  protein
topoisomeras break and rejoin doubl helix dure dna replic to unravel twist and prevent knot
break and rejoin doubl helix dure dna replic to unravel twist and prevent knot topoisomeras
dna polymeras in assembl of nucleotid dure dna replication, move in 3'-5 direct along each dna templat strand
in assembl of nucleotid dure dna replication, move in 3'-5 direct along each dna templat strand dna polymeras
lag strand 5'-3 strand of dna mean dna polymeras can onli move away from replic fork,  okazaki fragment as it return to fork again and again
5'-3 strand of dna mean dna polymeras can onli move away from replic fork,  okazaki fragment as it return to fork again and again lag strand
primas begin replic with short segment of rna nucleotides, with which lead strand and everi okazaki fragment must begin
begin replic with short segment of rna nucleotides, with which lead strand and everi okazaki fragment must begin primas
telomeras extend lag strand of dna to prevent loss of import dna at end of strand when dna polymeras cannot attach to replac lost primers; becom less  with age
extend lag strand of dna to prevent loss of import dna at end of strand when dna polymeras cannot attach to replac lost primers; becom less  with age telomeras
mechan to repair error in dna replic • proofreading: dna polymeras check to ensur correct pair • mismatch repair: protein repair error that escap polymeras • excis repair: identifi and remov entir section of damag dna
frameshift mutat delet or insert that caus diplac of all subsequ nucleotid
delet or insert that caus diplac of all subsequ nucleotid frameshift mutat
silent mutat point mutat  in new codon that code for same amino acid; in last of three nuceotides, may be aid by wobbl pair
point mutat  in new codon that code for same amino acid; in last of three nuceotides, may be aid by wobbl pair silent mutat
missens mutat point mutat  in codon that code for new amino acid, which may prevent proper fold
point mutat  in codon that code for new amino acid, which may prevent proper fold missens mutat
nonsens mutat point mutat caus new codon to code for stop codon, prevent complet of translat
point mutat caus new codon to code for stop codon, prevent complet of translat nonsens mutat
transposon natur occur mutat that insert themselv throughout genom after copi or delet selv from other area
natur occur mutat that insert themselv throughout genom after copi or delet selv from other area transposon
endoderm develop into digest tract and accessori organs, respiratori system
develop into digest tract and accessori organs, respiratori system endoderm
mesoderm develop into circulatory, reproductive, urinary, skeleto-muscular system
develop into circulatory, reproductive, urinary, skeleto-muscular system mesoderm
ectoderm develop into skin, nervous system
develop into skin, nervous system ectoderm
morphogenesi order chang in embryo size and proport due to migrat and prolifer of cells, direct by pseudopodia and cytoskeleton
order chang in embryo size and proport due to migrat and prolifer of cells, direct by pseudopodia and cytoskeleton morphogenesi
phase of meiosi 1. prophas i - chromosom appear, nuclear envelop disappears, spindl apparatus develops, homolog chromosom pair with each other and cross over 2. metaphas i - chromosom align doubli on metaphas plate; microtubul attach to both member of homolog chromosom pair 3. anaphas i - homologu uncoupl and travel to pole 4. telophas i - nuclear membran reappears,  two nuclei with half usual number of chromosomes, but each chromosom has two chromatid cytokinesi or interphas ii 5. prophas ii - nuclear envelop disappears, spindl apparatus develop 6. metaphas ii - chromosom align singl on metaphas plate 7. anaphas ii - chromosom separ into chromatid and migrat along microtubul to pole 8. telophas ii - nuclear envelop reappears, cytokinesi divid daughter cell into four haploid cell with a singl chromatid
g protein transduct pathway 1. gpcr receiv signal from ligand 2. gpcr  g protein by displac gdp with gtp 3. g protein  to effector protein 4. effector protein initi respons (enzymat ity, product of camp, product of ip3 and dag, product of ca2+) 5. gpcr signal is de when gtp is hydrolyz
conjug and transfer of f plasmid 1. f+ cell  mate bridg with f- cell; one strand of plasmid dna break 2. f+ cell synthes new plasmid strand; broken strand enter f- cell to begin synthesi 3. synthesi continu as broken strand move farther into f- cell 4. plasmid in recipi cell circularizes; both cell are now f+
altern of generat in plant 1. fertilization/syngami 2. zygot 3. embryo 4. sporophyt 5. meiosi 6. spore 7. gametophyt 8. mitosi 9. gamet
basidiomycet life cycl 1. haploid mycelia of differ mate type undergo plasmogami 2. dikaryot mycelium grows, crowd out parent 3. environment cue induc mycelium to  basidiocarp 4. karyogami in basidium (termin dikaryot cell in gills) produc diploid nuclei 5. after meiosis, each diploid nucleus yield four haploid cell to  basidiospor 6. matur basidiospor dispers by wind 7. basidiospor germin and grow into haploid mycelia
life cycl of malaria parasit 1. sporozoit inocul into human host by mosquito; invad liver cell 2. sporozoit divid into mani merozoit or dormant hypnozoit 3. merozoit enter bloodstream and matur into schizont that ruptur to releas more merozoit 4. some merozoit instead develop into male and femal gametocyt for sexual reproduct 5. mosquito ingest gametocytes, which develop into gamet in the midgut 6. gamet fuse to  diploid zygotes, which develop into ookinet that burrow through the mosquito midgut wall and  oocyst on the other side. 7. oocyst produc sporozoit that travel to the mosquito salivari gland
develop of flower 1. concentr of constan (co) protein measur day length 2. phytochrom regul co concentr 3. co stimul transcript of of flower locus t (ft) gene 4. ft mrna produc ft protein that travel through phloem to shoot apex to initi flower development. ft is believ to be the theoriz florigen.
mold life cycl 1. two mate type come in contact 2. hyphal extens call gametangia contain multipl haploid nuclei  plasmogami 3. zygosporanium contain haploid nuclei from both parent  4. zygosporanium develop thick-wal coat to resist harsh condit karyogami (when condit favorable) meiosi 5. sporangium dispers genet divers haploid spore (sporangium can also dispers ident haploid spore if produc asexually) 6. spore germinate, grow into new mycelia
level of protein structur primari structur - order of amino acid secondari structur - shape that occur as a  of hydrogen bond (alpha helix/pl sheet) tertiari structur - addit shaping, incl. bond between r groups, hydrophob effect, disulphid bond quaternari structur - assemblag of multipl peptid chain into a protein
rtk transduct sequenc 1. rtk receiv signal at outer surfac of membran 2. two rtks associate,  dimer 3. rtk is  by autophosphoryl 4. relay protein(s) are  by phosphoryl 5. relay protein(s)  transduct pathway(s) 6. rtk pathway is de by dephosphoryl or isol
creation of recombin dna 1. restrict enzym cut sugar-phosph backbon 2. dna fragment ad from molecul cut by same enzyme; base pair occur 3. dna ligas seal strand
eudicot life cycl 1. matur flower on sporophyt plant possess ovari and anther 2. anther produc microspor in pollen grains, while ovul in ovari produc megaspor that undergo mitosi to becom egg 3. after be dispersed, pollen grain land on stigma and sperm crawl down pollen tube to egg 4. pollen tube connect to egg nucleus and discharg sperm nuclei fertil egg 5. fertil egg contain zygot and develop endosperm 6. egg develop into sperm with an embryo, endosperm food supply, and seed coat 7. seed germin into sporophyt plant.
redox reaction reduction/oxid reactions; reduct = gain of electrons/loss of oxygen, oxid = loss of electrons/gain of oxygen
glycogen anim starch; branch
anim starch; branch glycogen
amylos plant starch; loop
plant starch; loop amylos
omega-3 vs omega-6 fatti acid dietari fats; carboxyl end of fatti acid = alpha end, other end omega; distanc of double-bond carbon atom from omega end determin whether omega-3 or omega-6.
digest of satur vs. unsatur fat enzym break molecul at doubl bonds, so unsatur fat get broken down into smaller piec while satur fat get fold into cholesterol and then into other steroid if need
amino acid structur 
acid donat h+
donat h+ acid
base accept h+
accept h+ base
type of isom • structur isom - same ula, built differ (e.g. glucose) • geometr isom - same structure, differ in e.g. doubl bond • enantiom - mirror each other
 amino acid structur
nucleotid base pair a and g are purines; t, c, and u are pyrimidines. purin and pyrimidin bond.
3' and 5' end of dna strand 
endomembran system includ nuclear envelope, endoplasm reticulum, golgi body, vesicles, vacuoles, lysosomes, and other membrane-bound cellular parts, but not endosymbiont
includ nuclear envelope, endoplasm reticulum, golgi body, vesicles, vacuoles, lysosomes, and other membrane-bound cellular parts, but not endosymbiont endomembran system
nucleolus dens chromatin at center of nucleus, site of ribosom rna synthesis, size vari with protein need of cells, but number is constant within speci
dens chromatin at center of nucleus, site of ribosom rna synthesis, size vari with protein need of cells, but number is constant within speci nucleolus
nuclear pore complex protein structur allow passag of protein and mrna through nuclear membran bilay
protein structur allow passag of protein and mrna through nuclear membran bilay nuclear pore complex
dialysi the movement of a solut through a select permeabl membran
the movement of a solut through a select permeabl membran dialysi
water potenti equat ψ (water potential) = ψ p (pressur potential) + ψ s (solut potential)
middl lamella pectin layer cement cell wall of adjac plant togeth
pectin layer cement cell wall of adjac plant togeth middl lamella
the extracellular matrix of anim tissu is compos primarili of the glycoprotein molecul known as [...] . the extracellular matrix of anim tissu is compos primarili of the glycoprotein molecul known as collagen .
the extracellular matrix of anim tissu is compos primarili of the [...] molecul known as collagen. the extracellular matrix of anim tissu is compos primarili of the glycoprotein molecul known as collagen.
the [...] of anim tissu is compos primarili of the glycoprotein molecul known as collagen. the extracellular matrix of anim tissu is compos primarili of the glycoprotein molecul known as collagen.
proteoglycan protein in the extracellular matrix with mani carbohydr attached, allow tissu to withstand compress
protein in the extracellular matrix with mani carbohydr attached, allow tissu to withstand compress proteoglycan
in the extracellular matrix, [...]  to membrane-span receptor protein call integrins. this connect can be use to  signal transduct pathways. in the extracellular matrix, fibronectin  to membrane-span receptor protein call integrins. this connect can be use to  signal transduct pathways.
in the extracellular matrix, fibronectin  to [...] call integrins. this connect can be use to  signal transduct pathways. in the extracellular matrix, fibronectin  to membrane-span receptor protein call integrins. this connect can be use to  signal transduct pathways.
in the extracellular matrix, fibronectin  to membrane-span receptor protein call [...] . this connect can be use to  signal transduct pathways. in the extracellular matrix, fibronectin  to membrane-span receptor protein call integrin . this connect can be use to  signal transduct pathways.
in the extracellular matrix, fibronectin  to membrane-span receptor protein call integrins. this connect can be use to [...] . in the extracellular matrix, fibronectin  to membrane-span receptor protein call integrins. this connect can be use to  signal transduct pathway .
electron carrier in etc nadh allow pump of 10 h+, fadh 2 6; atp synthas phosphoryl one atp per 4 h+.
end of etc 4h + + 4e - + o 2 -- 2h 2 o
chemiosmosi power the synthesi of atp through a proton gradient across the inner mitochondr membrane, which caus atp synthas to rotat and open and close  site that synthes atp from adp
power the synthesi of atp through a proton gradient across the inner mitochondr membrane, which caus atp synthas to rotat and open and close  site that synthes atp from adp chemiosmosi
how doe the cell use excess glucos excess glucos is store in starch or in fat. when fat is used, it is broken down into a glycerol backbon and three fatti acids. the glycerol is turn into pgal through gluconeogenesi and fed into glycolysis, while the fatti acid are turn into acetyl coa and use to power the kreb cycle.
excess glucos is store in starch or in fat. when fat is used, it is broken down into a glycerol backbon and three fatti acids. the glycerol is turn into pgal through gluconeogenesi and fed into glycolysis, while the fatti acid are turn into acetyl coa and use to power the kreb cycle. how doe the cell use excess glucos
atp adenosin triphosphate, inher unstabl due to shape (adenine, ribose, three phosphates); work done due to shape chang caus by addit of p i or energi releas when bond broken
adenosin triphosphate, inher unstabl due to shape (adenine, ribose, three phosphates); work done due to shape chang caus by addit of p i or energi releas when bond broken atp
how doe a non-steroid hormon communic with a cell the hormon  to a receptor site on the surfac of the cell, which trigger a transduct pathway that caus the physiolog chang either immedi or through a second messenger.
how doe a steroid hormon communic with a cell the hormon travel into the nucleus and  to a receptor protein that caus mrna synthesis, which ultim  in the product of a protein to carri out a specif cellular ity.
nervous system central nervous system - control cognition; storag and synthesi of in peripher nervous system - control body/motor action —somat nervous system - control intent motor action ——affer neuron - transmit sensori in to brain ——effer neuron - receiv motor command from brain —autonom nervous system - control non-consci reaction ——sympathet nervous system - control skelet muscl ——parasympathet nervous system - control organs, glands, blood vessel
reflex arc caus automat responses; three part - sensori neuron, motor neuron, and interneuron in spinal cord connect the two; sinc brain not involved, requir no thought
caus automat responses; three part - sensori neuron, motor neuron, and interneuron in spinal cord connect the two; sinc brain not involved, requir no thought reflex arc
retrovirus viral rna enter cell with revers transcriptase, which catalyz synthesi of dna strand complementari to rna and then second dna strand complementari to first, allow gene to be incorpor into cell dna as provirus and transcrib as rna molecul that are both translat into protein and use as genom for the next generation.
name/energi source/carbon source/typ of organ photoautotroph / light / carbon dioxide, bicarbon / plants, algae, cyanobacteria chemoautotroph / inorgan chemic / carbon dioxide, bicarbon / certain prokaryot photoheterotroph / light / organ compound / aquatic, halophil prokaryot chemoheterotroph / organ compound / organ compound / fungi, animals, plants, mani prokaryot and protist
polymeras of prokaryot pol iii build lead strand and okazaki fragments, doe most proofreading; pol i replac rna primer
heterochromatin remain condens dure interphas
euchromatin can be read and transcrib dure interphas
can be read and transcrib dure interphas euchromatin
remain condens dure interphas heterochromatin
packag of chromosom dna strand  nucleosom wrap around histon complexes, then coiled, looped, and condens into chromosom
spermatogenesi produc four equit gamet
produc four equit gamet spermatogenesi
oogenesi prouc one matur egg and three polar bodies; egg need to be capabl of sustain embryo metabol and develop
prouc one matur egg and three polar bodies; egg need to be capabl of sustain embryo metabol and develop oogenesi
kinetochor protein disc at centrosom of chromosom where microtubul attach; secret inhibitori protein to stop anaphas until microtubul attached; motor protein caus chromosom to move along microtubul and break it down into tubulin subunit afterwards.
protein disc at centrosom of chromosom where microtubul attach; secret inhibitori protein to stop anaphas until microtubul attached; motor protein caus chromosom to move along microtubul and break it down into tubulin subunit afterwards. kinetochor
homozyg vs heterozyg vs hemizyg same allele, differ alleles, onli one allel (sex-link gene in males)
complet genet linkag crossing-ov rare occur between loci, so onli parental-typ gamet produc
crossing-ov rare occur between loci, so onli parental-typ gamet produc complet genet linkag
incomplet genet linkag loci physic close, but not so that cross over doesn't occur
loci physic close, but not so that cross over doesn't occur incomplet genet linkag
tran arrang in heterozyg parent, link loci have one recess and one domin allel
in heterozyg parent, link loci have one recess and one domin allel tran arrang
cis arrang in heterozyg parent, link loci are both recess or domin
in heterozyg parent, link loci are both recess or domin cis arrang
x 2 (o-e) 2 /e, compar to degre of freedom tabl (one less than number of traits), accept either h 0 (same population) or h a (differ populations)
linkag map distanc (# recombinants/tot offspring)*100 cmu; 50 = independ
origin of replic where dna replic begins, proceed in two lead strand and two lag strand along 3'5 direct
where dna replic begins, proceed in two lead strand and two lag strand along 3'5 direct origin of replic
operon cluster of gene control by promot and  in either monocistron or polycistron mrna
cluster of gene control by promot and  in either monocistron or polycistron mrna operon
monocistron mrna eukaryot mrna; translat to onli one polypeptid
eukaryot mrna; translat to onli one polypeptid monocistron mrna
polycistron mrna prokaryot mrna; multipl open read frame with promot and oper
prokaryot mrna; multipl open read frame with promot and oper polycistron mrna
transcript 1. transcript factor protein bond to promot region of dna 2. rna polymeras ii enzym locat transcript factors, then begin unwind helix and assembl rna nucleotid 3. polymeras transcrib dna from 3' to 5' end until polyadenyl signal attract cut protein 4. mrna is processed; given gtp cap on 5' end to attract ribosome, poly-a tail to locat nucleopor 5. mrna is spliced; intron cut out and recyled, exon and utrs/cap and tail left (snrna ribozym -- snrnp -- spliceosome) 6. mrna is export through a nuclear pore into the cytoplasm/rough e.r.
translat 1. srs  to 5' end of mrna 2. trna charg with methionin through atp -- amp reaction on aminoacyl-trna synthetase;  to start codon 3. through degrad of gtp, ribosom assembl in cytoplasm or on rough e.r. with exit site, peptidyl-trna  side, aminoacyl-trna  site 4. with trna in p site, second trna enter a site 5. amino string of trna in p site transfer to trna in a site (power by gtp) 6. ribosom shifts, move both trna molecul toward 5' end of mrna; molecul in e site exit ribosom (power by gtp) 7. when stop codon is reached, releas factor  to mrna in place of trna molecul 8. releas factor attract water molecul to break bond between polypeptid and trna molecul 9. gtp and protein caus disintegr of ribosom
4 method of gene control 1. condens - heterochromatin remain wrap around histon complex 2. methyl - methyl group ad to cytosin base to  transcript 3. steroid hormon - steroid necessari for hormone-receptor complex to induc transcript 4. rna inhibitor - molecul  to dna to  polymeras or to polymeras direct
lac operon • transcript  when lac repressor  to oper region, prevent polymeras access; lactos sugar  to repressor, in it and allow polymeras access to dna • when glucos level low, camp  to promot molecul that  to oper region, attract rna polymeras and increas rate of transcript
• transcript  when lac repressor  to oper region, prevent polymeras access; lactos sugar  to repressor, in it and allow polymeras access to dna • when glucos level low, camp  to promot molecul that  to oper region, attract rna polymeras and increas rate of transcript lac operon
biolog speci concept a group of organ that actual or potenti interbre with each other to produc viabl offspr and do not under normal condit interbre with member of other group
phylogenet speci concept add time element to biolog speci concept; speci defin as singl banch on phylogenet tree
prezygot isol mechan • ecolog - differ prefer • tempor - breed period don't overlap • etholog - behavorial/sensory, often scent • structur - reproduct structur shape differ • gamet - sperm can onli penetr own speci egg
• ecolog - differ prefer • tempor - breed period don't overlap • etholog - behavorial/sensory, often scent • structur - reproduct structur shape differ • gamet - sperm can onli penetr own speci egg prezygot isol mechan
postzygot isol mechan (if two speci can produc zygote, must be veri similar) • reduc hybrid viabil - usual dead • reduc hybrid fertil - steril due to non-homolog chromosom • hybrid breakdown - cannot interbre with each other or parent
• reduc hybrid viabil - usual dead • reduc hybrid fertil - steril due to non-homolog chromosom • hybrid breakdown - cannot interbre with each other or parent postzygot isol mechan (if two speci can produc zygote, must be veri similar)
allopatr speciat geograph isol  in speci evolv in two differ environments, split into two "sister species"
geograph isol  in speci evolv in two differ environments, split into two "sister species" allopatr speciat
sympatr speciat speciat occur in group occupi same habitat, may be due to sexual select or ecolog prefer
speciat occur in group occupi same habitat, may be due to sexual select or ecolog prefer sympatr speciat
allopolyploidi viabl offspr inherit multipl chromosom from differ species; occur in plant (e.g. wheat)
viabl offspr inherit multipl chromosom from differ species; occur in plant (e.g. wheat) allopolyploidi
punctuat equilibrium theori deriv from stephen jay gould analysi of marin fossil show that there are long period of time where evolutionari pressur is absent, creat signific chang in brief period of time
theori deriv from stephen jay gould analysi of marin fossil show that there are long period of time where evolutionari pressur is absent, creat signific chang in brief period of time punctuat equilibrium
microevolut vs macroevolut chang in gene or speci vs develop of new taxonom name
chang in gene or speci vs develop of new taxonom name microevolut vs macroevolut
coverg evolut two or more unrel speci becom more similar due to occupi a similar nich
two or more unrel speci becom more similar due to occupi a similar nich coverg evolut
coevolut evolut of two speci in respons to each other, esp.  in symbiosi
evolut of two speci in respons to each other, esp.  in symbiosi coevolut
adapt radiat rapid multipl of speci as popul enter new habitat, or as new adapt open up ecolog nich
rapid multipl of speci as popul enter new habitat, or as new adapt open up ecolog nich adapt radiat
georg cuvier advoc for fossil as remain of organisms, "catastrophism" = fossil caus by extinct event (dramatic, immedi changes)
advoc for fossil as remain of organisms, "catastrophism" = fossil caus by extinct event (dramatic, immedi changes) georg cuvier
thoma malthus overpopulation, necess of povery, more offspr than support = onli success survive, linear resourc vs quadrat popul growth
overpopulation, necess of povery, more offspr than support = onli success survive, linear resourc vs quadrat popul growth thoma malthus
jean-baptist lamarck publish theori of acquir characterist same year darwin was born (can inherit environment incluenc phenotyp characteristics)
publish theori of acquir characterist same year darwin was born (can inherit environment incluenc phenotyp characteristics) jean-baptist lamarck
jame hutton geolog chang happen gradually, demonstr age of earth, propos first theori of biolog adapt and natur select
geolog chang happen gradually, demonstr age of earth, propos first theori of biolog adapt and natur select jame hutton
charl lyell rate of geolog and biolog chang remain constant over time ("uniitarianism"), therefor the earth must be milion of year old
rate of geolog and biolog chang remain constant over time ("uniitarianism"), therefor the earth must be milion of year old charl lyell
outgroup relat speci lack featur use for cladist analysis, often ancestor
relat speci lack featur use for cladist analysis, often ancestor outgroup
parsimoni computer cladistics; phylogenet tree with fewest branch most like to be correct
computer cladistics; phylogenet tree with fewest branch most like to be correct parsimoni
molecular clock theori under normal conditions, rate of mutat consistent, therefor dna differ can allow us to approxim time of reproduct isol (should use as mani sequenc as possible, evalu on case-by-cas basis, correct for selectionari pressure)
under normal conditions, rate of mutat consistent, therefor dna differ can allow us to approxim time of reproduct isol (should use as mani sequenc as possible, evalu on case-by-cas basis, correct for selectionari pressure) molecular clock theori
monophylet vs polyphylet vs paraphylet must includ common ancestor and all descend (polyphyli doesn't includ ancestor, paraphyli doesn't includ all descendents)
autopomorphi uniqu deriv featur
uniqu deriv featur autopomorphi
synapomorphi share deriv feature; what cladist analysi focus on
share deriv feature; what cladist analysi focus on synapomorphi
symplesiomorphi share primit featur
share primit featur symplesiomorphi
miller-urey experi confirm abiot synthesi of nucleic acid possibl
confirm abiot synthesi of nucleic acid possibl miller-urey experi
ribozym rna that can both store genet in and act as a catalyst, which may have been absorb into a vesicular protocel and  in the begin of natur select and the origin of true organ
rna that can both store genet in and act as a catalyst, which may have been absorb into a vesicular protocel and  in the begin of natur select and the origin of true organ ribozym
cretaceous-paleogen extinct mass extinct event  in extinct of all non-avian dinosaur and subsequ radiat of mammal
mass extinct event  in extinct of all non-avian dinosaur and subsequ radiat of mammal cretaceous-paleogen extinct
cambrian explos emerg of predat and diversif of phyla (most modern anim phyla appear then, over relat short evolutionari time period)
emerg of predat and diversif of phyla (most modern anim phyla appear then, over relat short evolutionari time period) cambrian explos
progress of biolog classif of organ • linnaeus - kingdom animalia, planta • whittak - kingdom animalia, plantae, monera, protista, fungi • woes - domain bacteria, archaea, eukarya (animalia, plantae, protista, fungi) • rivera &amp; lake - "ring of life"
ring of life due to preval of horizont gene transfer dure earli evolution, shouldn't separ domain until genet independ reach
type of natur select (&amp; examples) • stabil select - select for common trait, e.g. # of offspr • direct select - select for one extreme, e.g. pesticid resist • disrupt select - select for both extremes, e.g. weed • sexual select - select for desir to females, e.g. plumag
genet recombin in sexual select • cross over • independ assort of homologu • random join of gamet
heterosi offspr  from cross between two differ inbr strain of plant have advantage, as no deleteri homozyg recess condit
offspr  from cross between two differ inbr strain of plant have advantage, as no deleteri homozyg recess condit heterosi
frequency-depend select less common phenotyp select for until it becom majority, then select against; e.g. scale- cichlid
less common phenotyp select for until it becom majority, then select against; e.g. scale- cichlid frequency-depend select
evid for evolut paleontolog (fossil record), biogeograph (convergence), embryolog (ontogen similarities), anatom (homologies), biochem (gene and protein sequencing)
paleontolog (fossil record), biogeograph (convergence), embryolog (ontogen similarities), anatom (homologies), biochem (gene and protein sequencing) evid for evolut
founder effect allel frequenc in small group of migrant may not be repres of origin population, e.g. polydactyli in amish
allel frequenc in small group of migrant may not be repres of origin population, e.g. polydactyli in amish founder effect
bottleneck effect when popul dramat decreases, allel frequenc in remaind may not be repres of er population, e.g. all european bison descend from 12
when popul dramat decreases, allel frequenc in remaind may not be repres of er population, e.g. all european bison descend from 12 bottleneck effect
use of hardy-weinberg calcul reveal how allel frequenc are changing, which equilibrium condit are be violated, and what mechan are drive evolut
altern splice differ way of process mrna (excis exon as well as introns) to  in differ protein from the same gene.
differ way of process mrna (excis exon as well as introns) to  in differ protein from the same gene. altern splice
intron purpos increas frequenc of cross over and decreas likelihood of damag to code section
increas frequenc of cross over and decreas likelihood of damag to code section intron purpos
polyribosom cluster of multipl ribosom translat the same mrna
cluster of multipl ribosom translat the same mrna polyribosom
how protein get from ribosom to the e.r. 1. srp  to signal peptid at end of protein 2. srp  to srp receptor protein at transloc complex 3. signal peptid remov after protein channel into e.r. lumen 4. ribosom carri out action, e.g. addit of polysaccharid to  glycoprotein
quorum sens bacteria of same speci move togeth to  coloni due to concentr gradient of signal molecul (posit chemotaxis), creat biofilm and allow bacteria to adher more strong to substrat
bacteria of same speci move togeth to  coloni due to concentr gradient of signal molecul (posit chemotaxis), creat biofilm and allow bacteria to adher more strong to substrat quorum sens
origin of life 1. earth and atmospher ~4.6 bya 2. primordi sea 3. organ molecules, incl. amino acid 4. polym and self-repl molecul (ribozymes) 5. protobionts—chem reaction enclos in semiperm border 6. primit heterotroph prokaryot ~3.9 bya 7. primit autotroph prokaryot through mutat 8. oxygen and ozon layer due to autotroph 9. eukaryot (endosymbionts)
protobiont (and example) precursor of cell with chemic reaction enclos within membrane-lik border; liposom and coacerv experiment produc
precursor of cell with chemic reaction enclos within membrane-lik border; liposom and coacerv experiment produc protobiont (and example)
evid for endosymbiont theori • endosymbiont dna resembl that of bacteria • endosymbiont ribosom resembl those of bacteria • endosymbiont reproduc independently, similar to binarri fission • endosymbiont have two membranes, which could indic a vesicl
biofilm dens popul of bacteria link by adhes proteins, with channel for respir
dens popul of bacteria link by adhes proteins, with channel for respir biofilm
tonsil trap airborn germ
trap airborn germ tonsil
epiglotti prevent aspir dure swallow
prevent aspir dure swallow epiglotti
lower esophageal/cardiac sphincter close to prevent passag of food into stomach
close to prevent passag of food into stomach lower esophageal/cardiac sphincter
stomach mechan breakdown of food
mechan breakdown of food stomach
gastric acid steril food, trigger releas of pepsin
steril food, trigger releas of pepsin gastric acid
pepsin break down protein,  by low ph
break down protein,  by low ph pepsin
pylor sphincter close to prevent passag into duodenum
close to prevent passag into duodenum pylor sphincter
duodenum enzymat breakdown of food
enzymat breakdown of food duodenum
gallbladd store bile
store bile gallbladd
bile duct conduct bile to duodenum
conduct bile to duodenum bile duct
bile emulsifi lipid in duodenum
emulsifi lipid in duodenum bile
proteas secret by pancrea into duodenum; begin protein catabol
secret by pancrea into duodenum; begin protein catabol proteas
lipas secret by pancrea into duodenum; break down dietari fat
secret by pancrea into duodenum; break down dietari fat lipas
amylas secret by pancrea into duodenum; hydrolyz starch into sugar
secret by pancrea into duodenum; hydrolyz starch into sugar amylas
nucleas secret by pancrea into duodenum; break down nucleic acid
secret by pancrea into duodenum; break down nucleic acid nucleas
pancreat bicarbon produc by pancrea to neutral stomach acid
produc by pancrea to neutral stomach acid pancreat bicarbon
jejunum absorb nutrient
absorb nutrient jejunum
ileum reclaim bile salt
reclaim bile salt ileum
larg intestine/colon reclaim water from solid wast
reclaim water from solid wast larg intestine/colon
cecum store bacteria to break down cellulose; vestigi (appendix) in human
store bacteria to break down cellulose; vestigi (appendix) in human cecum
rectum store fece
store fece rectum
rectum store fece
store fece rectum
anus excret solid wast
excret solid wast anus
villi elabor of simpl columnar epithelium to increas surfac area, e.g. in small intestin
elabor of simpl columnar epithelium to increas surfac area, e.g. in small intestin villi
gastrin hormon stimul secret of gastric acid by pariet cell of stomach; produc by g cell of stomach
stimul secret of gastric acid by pariet cell of stomach; produc by g cell of stomach gastrin hormon
secretin hormon regul ph of duodenum; produc by s cell of duodenum
regul ph of duodenum; produc by s cell of duodenum secretin hormon
cholecystokinin stimul digest of fat and protein; produc by enteroendocrin cell of duodenum
stimul digest of fat and protein; produc by enteroendocrin cell of duodenum cholecystokinin
cuboid epitheli tissu cell special for secretion; compris kidney tubules, gland
cell special for secretion; compris kidney tubules, gland cuboid epitheli tissu
simpl columnar epithelium special for secret and absorption, e.g. intestin lining; goblet cell hold mucus for lubric
special for secret and absorption, e.g. intestin lining; goblet cell hold mucus for lubric simpl columnar epithelium
simpl squamous epithelium special for exchang of materi by diffusion, line blood vessel and alveoli
special for exchang of materi by diffusion, line blood vessel and alveoli simpl squamous epithelium
pseudostratifi columnar epithelium ciliat to move mucus on surface, found in part of respiratori tract
ciliat to move mucus on surface, found in part of respiratori tract pseudostratifi columnar epithelium
stratifi squamous epithelium regener rapid with outer cell slough off, e.g. skin, mouth, anal/vagin line
regener rapid with outer cell slough off, e.g. skin, mouth, anal/vagin line stratifi squamous epithelium
keratin fill cell in stratifi squamous epithelium of epidermi as they move too far from blood vessels, allow them to function as a durabl and waterproof outermost layer
fill cell in stratifi squamous epithelium of epidermi as they move too far from blood vessels, allow them to function as a durabl and waterproof outermost layer keratin
loose/areolar connect tissu most common type of connect tissue;  epithelium to tissues, hold organ in place - found in skin and throughout bodi
most common type of connect tissue;  epithelium to tissues, hold organ in place - found in skin and throughout bodi loose/areolar connect tissu
fibrous connect tissu dens with collagen fibers, found in tendon and ligament
dens with collagen fibers, found in tendon and ligament fibrous connect tissu
bone (calcified) tissu osteoblast deposit collagen; fill by calcium, magnesium, phosphate; osteon = concentr ring around canal with blood vessel and nerv
osteoblast deposit collagen; fill by calcium, magnesium, phosphate; osteon = concentr ring around canal with blood vessel and nerv bone (calcified) tissu
adipos tissu store fuel as fat in adipos cell that swell and shrink, pad and insul bodi
store fuel as fat in adipos cell that swell and shrink, pad and insul bodi adipos tissu
cartilag collagen and chondroitin sulfat secret by chondrocytes; structural, later replac by bone
collagen and chondroitin sulfat secret by chondrocytes; structural, later replac by bone cartilag
blood erythrocytes, leukocytes, and platelet suspend in plasma (water, salts, dissolv proteins)
erythrocytes, leukocytes, and platelet suspend in plasma (water, salts, dissolv proteins) blood
lymphocyt produc b and t stem cell to augment immun reaction
produc b and t stem cell to augment immun reaction lymphocyt
monocyt remov dead and damag tissu
remov dead and damag tissu monocyt
basophil prevent blood from clot too rapid
prevent blood from clot too rapid basophil
eosonophil consum foreign substanc detect in the blood
consum foreign substanc detect in the blood eosonophil
erythrocyt red blood cell special for the role of deliv gases, lack nuclei or other organell and produc onli when the bodi detect an oxygen defici
red blood cell special for the role of deliv gases, lack nuclei or other organell and produc onli when the bodi detect an oxygen defici erythrocyt
ligament connect tissu in joint
connect tissu in joint ligament
tendon connect tissu between bone and muscl
connect tissu between bone and muscl tendon
skelet muscl respons for voluntari movement; sarcomer bundl into muscl fiber
respons for voluntari movement; sarcomer bundl into muscl fiber skelet muscl
skelet muscl respons for voluntari movement; sarcomer bundl into muscl fiber
respons for voluntari movement; sarcomer bundl into muscl fiber skelet muscl
smooth muscl spindle-shap cell respons for involuntari ity; thin and thick filament not all line up; digest tract, urinari bladder, arteries, etc.
spindle-shap cell respons for involuntari ity; thin and thick filament not all line up; digest tract, urinari bladder, arteries, etc. smooth muscl
cardiac muscl contractil wall of heart; striated, intercal disk relay cell-cel signal
contractil wall of heart; striated, intercal disk relay cell-cel signal cardiac muscl
contract of sarcomer the head of the thick myosin filament are attract to point along the thin actin filament, but typic  by the tropomysin membrane. when a calcium ion shift the tropomysin, the myosin can bond to the actin, and when atp energ the myosin, it can releas and grip anoth point. thus, the myosin bring the two set of actin filament closer together, make the distanc between the z line smaller and thus contract the sarcomere.
the head of the thick myosin filament are attract to point along the thin actin filament, but typic  by the tropomysin membrane. when a calcium ion shift the tropomysin, the myosin can bond to the actin, and when atp energ the myosin, it can releas and grip anoth point. thus, the myosin bring the two set of actin filament closer together, make the distanc between the z line smaller and thus contract the sarcomere. contract of sarcomer
epithelium vs endothelium epithelium covers, endothelium line
homeostasi mainten of a balanc of condit (e.g. ph or temperature) within the bodi that is optim for the function of that bodi given it environ
mainten of a balanc of condit (e.g. ph or temperature) within the bodi that is optim for the function of that bodi given it environ homeostasi
negat feedback loop when environment factor chang condit to be abov or below set point, stimulus detect by bodili sensor and trigger physiolog respons to dampen effect of condit (e.g. sweating/shivering)
when environment factor chang condit to be abov or below set point, stimulus detect by bodili sensor and trigger physiolog respons to dampen effect of condit (e.g. sweating/shivering) negat feedback loop
integumentari system skin, hair, nails, and exocrin gland
skin, hair, nails, and exocrin gland integumentari system
-blast vs -cyte -blast assembl matrices, -cyte maintain their health
osteon haversian canal at center contain blood vessels, from which concentr layer call lamella extend; network of canaliculi facilit exchang of nutrient and wast between osteocyt live in space call lacuna
haversian canal at center contain blood vessels, from which concentr layer call lamella extend; network of canaliculi facilit exchang of nutrient and wast between osteocyt live in space call lacuna osteon
homeot gene control develop by organ tissu in differ region of the body; produc “homeodomain” protein within the differ bodi region that bond to gene promot sequenc and turn on certain gene import to the develop in that region
control develop by organ tissu in differ region of the body; produc “homeodomain” protein within the differ bodi region that bond to gene promot sequenc and turn on certain gene import to the develop in that region homeot gene
hox gene homeot gene organ bodi plan along head-tail axis,  in differenti of bodi segment and limb
homeot gene organ bodi plan along head-tail axis,  in differenti of bodi segment and limb hox gene
dosag compens in of one x-chromosom in femal to ensur quantiti of protein remain constant between male and femal
in of one x-chromosom in femal to ensur quantiti of protein remain constant between male and femal dosag compens
 cuboid epithelium
 simpl columnar epithelium
 simpl squamous epithelium
 pseudostratifi ciliat columnar epithelium
 stratifi squamous epithelium
 loose/areolar connect tissu (reticular fibers, elast fibers, fibroblasts)
 fibrous/dens connect tissu (cell nuclei, collagen fibers)
 adipos tissu (adipocytes, lipid vacuoles)
 hyalin cartilag (lacunae, chondrocytes, matrix)
 elast cartilag (chodrocytes, lacunae, elast fibers)
 skelet muscl (fuse sarcomeres, nuclei)
 smooth muscl
 cardiac muscl (intercal disks)
skelet muscl organ 
 bone (calcified) tissu
dermal bone found in e.g. skull; in dermal layer, osteoblast begin deposit bone and it grow togeth into a latticework
endochondr found in most bone of skelet system; osteoblast lay down collar of bone at center of earli cartilagin bone and ossif proceed outwards, with cartilag continu to elong throughout growth; in mammals, secondari ossif center  cap at end of bone and cartilagin epiphys plate elong in growth
sarcomer 
 sarcomer
sarcoplasm reticulum e.r. displac dure the fusion of sarcomer in skelet muscl
e.r. displac dure the fusion of sarcomer in skelet muscl sarcoplasm reticulum
how tissu contribut to organ structur and function • epitheli tissu separ and cover organ from each other • connect tissu give the bodi  and structur • muscl tissu allow organ to move and fulfil role
kidney urin produc in nephron of renal pyramid (glomerulus and convolut tubul in renal cortex, loop of henl and collect duct in renal medulla), flow through gravit forc into minor calyces, into pelvis, and down uret
urin produc in nephron of renal pyramid (glomerulus and convolut tubul in renal cortex, loop of henl and collect duct in renal medulla), flow through gravit forc into minor calyces, into pelvis, and down uret kidney
 glomerulus (affer arteriol - effer arteriole), bowman capsule, proxim convolut tubule, loop of henl (with peritubular capillaries), renal venule, collect duct
 1. dendrit 2. nucleus 3. cell bodi 4. schwann cell (w/ node of ranvier) 5. axon 6. axon bulb
schwann cell insul neurons, suppli neuron with oxygen and nutrient
insul neurons, suppli neuron with oxygen and nutrient schwann cell
impuls transmiss in a neuron 1. rest neuron is polar by use na/k pump to keep insid negat (k+) and outsid posit (na+) to achiev rest potenti of -70 millivolt 2. in respons to a stimulus, gate ion channel open and allow membran to becom depolarized; if stimulus abov threshold level of axon hillock (-55 mv), more na+ channel open and action potenti of +40 reached, caus open of na+ channel all the way down the length of the membran 3. repolar occur as gate channel allow k+ to exit cell and na+ channel close; however, na+ and k+ are on the wrong side of the membran 4. by the time the k+ channel close, the membran has becom hyperpolar at -90 mv 5. dure refractori period, na/k pump reestablish rest potential; neuron now capabl of respond to new stimuli
how a neuron messag jump a synapt cleft 1. brain decid to send messag 2. electr impuls sent from brain down neuron 3. at end of nerv fiber, neurotransmitt releas from nerv end 4. neurotransmitt travel across cleft between pre- and postsynapt neuron 5. neurotransmitt fit receptor on other side like key in lock 6. shape chang of receptor set off electr impuls 7. re-uptak allow transmitt to be broken down by enzym and recycl
neuromuscular junction synaps between motor neuron and muscl fiber
synaps between motor neuron and muscl fiber neuromuscular junction
cholinesteras enzym that catalyz the hydrolysi of neurotransmitt
enzym that catalyz the hydrolysi of neurotransmitt cholinesteras
node of ranvier where ion channel open and depolar travel down length of neuron, jump from one node to the next
where ion channel open and depolar travel down length of neuron, jump from one node to the next node of ranvier
forebrain associ with the cerebrum, hypothalamus and pituitari gland, and limbic system
associ with the cerebrum, hypothalamus and pituitari gland, and limbic system forebrain
cerebrum deriv into two cerebr hemispher connect by bundl of nerv fiber call the corpus callosum; divid into frontal, parietal, temporal, and occipit lobe
deriv into two cerebr hemispher connect by bundl of nerv fiber call the corpus callosum; divid into frontal, parietal, temporal, and occipit lobe cerebrum
hypothalamus link the nervous system to the endocrin gland via the pituitari gland, which secret hormon to regul physiolog function
link the nervous system to the endocrin gland via the pituitari gland, which secret hormon to regul physiolog function hypothalamus
limbic system though not technic deriv from forebrain, develop in and around cerebrum; network of neuron associ with emot
though not technic deriv from forebrain, develop in and around cerebrum; network of neuron associ with emot limbic system
prion misfold protein that can induc other protein to chang their shape to fit with the prion, which can  in slow degeneration, usual in the brain (e.g. creutzfeld-jakob disease, kuru)
misfold protein that can induc other protein to chang their shape to fit with the prion, which can  in slow degeneration, usual in the brain (e.g. creutzfeld-jakob disease, kuru) prion
prokaryot vs eukaryot genom er store in loop dna to prevent erosion, has onli one origin of replic and one replic bubbl per dna molecule; latter store as multipl chromosom or strand of chromatin in membrane-bound nucleus
er store in loop dna to prevent erosion, has onli one origin of replic and one replic bubbl per dna molecule; latter store as multipl chromosom or strand of chromatin in membrane-bound nucleus prokaryot vs eukaryot genom
differ between archaea and eubacteria • archaea use multipl dna polymeras dure replication; bacteria onli one • archaean dna  nucleosomes; bacteri dna is alway uncondens • bacteria are inhibit by antibiot that archaea show no reaction to • archaea can live in extrem environ where neither bacteria nor eukaryot can surviv
saltatori conduct action potenti jump from node to node, increas speed of impuls
action potenti jump from node to node, increas speed of impuls saltatori conduct
negat feedback in ins/gcg insulin stimul absorpt of glucos by liver and trans into glycogen/fat, glucagon stimul breakdown of glycogen and releas of glucos by liver; thus appropri level of glucos in bloodstream are reach
insulin stimul absorpt of glucos by liver and trans into glycogen/fat, glucagon stimul breakdown of glycogen and releas of glucos by liver; thus appropri level of glucos in bloodstream are reach negat feedback in ins/gcg
thermoregul ectotherm obtain heat from the environment, endotherm generat their own; temperatur regul through evaporation, shivering, metabol of fat, surfac area, countercurr exchang
ectotherm obtain heat from the environment, endotherm generat their own; temperatur regul through evaporation, shivering, metabol of fat, surfac area, countercurr exchang thermoregul
respiratori strategi direct, gill (cover by operculum, countercurr exchang maxim diffusion), trachea (w/ spiracles), lung (incl. book lungs)
gas exchang in human nose, pharynx, larynx - trachea (epiglotti protects) - two bronchi, divid into bronchiol - alveoli surround by capillari - diffus between alveolar chamber and blood - red blood cell - diffus into cell - at of bicarbon in red blood cell - export of bicarbon
control of respir in human volum of lung modul by pressur differenti creat by contract of diaphragm and intercost muscles; when bodi e, bicarbon product  in ph drop; chemoreceptor send nerv impuls to muscl to increas respiratori rate.
open circulatori system pump blood into hemocoel, which bath tissu with hemolymph that return to heart through ostia
pump blood into hemocoel, which bath tissu with hemolymph that return to heart through ostia open circulatori system
close circulatori system blood carri nutrients, oxygen, and wast confin to vessels; arteri move away from heart, branch into arteriol and then into capillaries; gas diffus into interstiti fluid and cells; deoxygen blood return to heart through venul merg to  veins, then pump into capillari bed of respiratori organ and back to heart
blood carri nutrients, oxygen, and wast confin to vessels; arteri move away from heart, branch into arteriol and then into capillaries; gas diffus into interstiti fluid and cells; deoxygen blood return to heart through venul merg to  veins, then pump into capillari bed of respiratori organ and back to heart close circulatori system
 1. right atrium 2. right ventricl 3. left atrium 4. left ventricl 5. pulmonari arteri 6. aortic arch 7. superior vena cava 8. inferior vena cava 9. pulmonari vein
cardiac cycl (lub-dup) 1. sinoatri (sa) node, or pacemaker, initi cycl by contact both atria and send impuls that simul atrioventriucular (av) node 2. av node send imuls through bundl of his to purkinj fibers, which  in contract of ventricl 3. contract (systol phase)  in blood be forc through aorta, close av valves; relax (diastol phase)  in backflow close semilunar valv
1. sinoatri (sa) node, or pacemaker, initi cycl by contact both atria and send impuls that simul atrioventriucular (av) node 2. av node send imuls through bundl of his to purkinj fibers, which  in contract of ventricl 3. contract (systol phase)  in blood be forc through aorta, close av valves; relax (diastol phase)  in backflow close semilunar valv cardiac cycl (lub-dup)
lymphat system lymph move through lymphat vessel by contract of adjac muscl to return insterstiti fluid and wast to circulatori system; lymph node act as clean filter and as ambush site for pathogen
ploidi in meiosi 
parthenogenesi unfertil egg, either haplod or diploid, start divid and becom embryo; in speci with x-i sex determination, or most lizards, offspr automat female, w/o x chromosom in
unfertil egg, either haplod or diploid, start divid and becom embryo; in speci with x-i sex determination, or most lizards, offspr automat female, w/o x chromosom in parthenogenesi
allanto egg 
 allanto egg
develop of zygot 
vestibular bulb (f), bulb of penis/bas corpus spongiosum (m) fill with blood to constrict vagin canal (f), prevent urethra from collaps in erect peni (m)
fill with blood to constrict vagin canal (f), prevent urethra from collaps in erect peni (m) vestibular bulb (f), bulb of penis/bas corpus spongiosum (m)
clitori (f), corpora cavernosa/glans/crus (m) erectil tissue, pleasur reward of copul
erectil tissue, pleasur reward of copul clitori (f), corpora cavernosa/glans/crus (m)
vestibular gland (f), bulbourethr gland (m) vestigi pheromone-produc gland (f), produc pre-ejacul to neutral urethra (m)
vestigi pheromone-produc gland (f), produc pre-ejacul to neutral urethra (m) vestibular gland (f), bulbourethr gland (m)
skene gland (f), prostrat gland (m) produc lubric fluid, involv in ejacul (f), produc semin fluid to de-acidifi vagin canal as well as feed and transport spermatozoa (m)
produc lubric fluid, involv in ejacul (f), produc semin fluid to de-acidifi vagin canal as well as feed and transport spermatozoa (m) skene gland (f), prostrat gland (m)
labia majora (f), scrotum (m) protext extern genitalia from abras and debri (f), fold that grow togeth in embryolog develop to enclos test (m)
protext extern genitalia from abras and debri (f), fold that grow togeth in embryolog develop to enclos test (m) labia majora (f), scrotum (m)
labia minora (f), penil shaft (m) seal vagin canal,  clitor hood, provid lubric (f), enclos urethra (m)
seal vagin canal,  clitor hood, provid lubric (f), enclos urethra (m) labia minora (f), penil shaft (m)
 1. vagina 2. cervix 3. endometrium 4. uterus 5. oviduct 6. infundibulum 7. ovari
 1. ovari 2. oviduct 3. uterus 4. urinari bladder 5. urethra 6. vagina 7. cervix 8. rectum
 1. ampulla 2. semin vesicl 3. ejaculatori duct 4. bulbourethr gland 5. urethra 6. epididymi 7. testi 8. corpus spongiosum 9. uret 10. urinari bladder 11. prostat 12. vas deferen 13. arteri of vas deferen 14. glan
peni structur 
testi 
 testi
leydig cell interstiti testosterostone-produc cell of test
interstiti testosterostone-produc cell of test leydig cell
sertoli cell provid nourish to spermatid as they differenti into spermatozoa
provid nourish to spermatid as they differenti into spermatozoa sertoli cell
ovarian cycl 
 ovarian cycl
menstrual cycl 1. follicular phase - develop of egg and secret of estrogen 2. ovul - midcycl releas of egg 3. luteal phase - secret of estrogen and progesteron from corpus luteum
1. follicular phase - develop of egg and secret of estrogen 2. ovul - midcycl releas of egg 3. luteal phase - secret of estrogen and progesteron from corpus luteum menstrual cycl
protostom vs deuterostom schizocoel with mouth develop from blastopor vs enterocoel with anus develop from blastopor
schizocoel with mouth develop from blastopor vs enterocoel with anus develop from blastopor protostom vs deuterostom
schizocoelus coelum  from split solid mass of mesoderm
coelum  from split solid mass of mesoderm schizocoelus
enterocoelus coelum  from fold of archenteron
coelum  from fold of archenteron enterocoelus
platelet togeth with coagul pathway lead to fibrin ation,  blood clots.
togeth with coagul pathway lead to fibrin ation,  blood clots. platelet
mechan respons for influenc cell develop and differenti • if cleavag determinate, cannot develop into complet embryo and development program limit to defin cell • cytoplasm determin may affect gene expression, e.g. morphogen gradient across cell determin axe of embryo • embryon induct occur through cell-cel communication, e.g. dorsal lip of blasopor induc notochord at • apoptosi occur when extern signal trigger signal trnsduction pathway to  gene that code for proteas and fragment cell
fix action pattern innat behavior follow unvari pattern, e.g. graylag goos collect of egg
innat behavior follow unvari pattern, e.g. graylag goos collect of egg fix action pattern
imprint innat program for acquir specif behavior if and onli if appropri stimulus is experienc dure critic period, e.g. salmon return to birthplac (imprint on odor)
innat program for acquir specif behavior if and onli if appropri stimulus is experienc dure critic period, e.g. salmon return to birthplac (imprint on odor) imprint
associ learn anim recogn connect between events, e.g. classic condit (pavlov dogs)
anim recogn connect between events, e.g. classic condit (pavlov dogs) associ learn
oper condit anim connect own behavior with environment respons (positive/neg conditioning), e.g. skinner box
anim connect own behavior with environment respons (positive/neg conditioning), e.g. skinner box oper condit
spatial learn associ of landmark with reward from return to location, e.g. wasp locat nest by pinecon
associ of landmark with reward from return to location, e.g. wasp locat nest by pinecon spatial learn
habitu learn behavior that allow animl to disregard meaningless stimuli, e.g. sea anemon attempt to captur food
learn behavior that allow animl to disregard meaningless stimuli, e.g. sea anemon attempt to captur food habitu
observ learn anim copi behavior of anoth anim without prior posit reinforcement, e.g. japanes monkey wash potato
anim copi behavior of anoth anim without prior posit reinforcement, e.g. japanes monkey wash potato observ learn
insight anim expos to new situat and without prior relev experi per behavior that generat posit outcome, e.g. chimpanze stack box
anim expos to new situat and without prior relev experi per behavior that generat posit outcome, e.g. chimpanze stack box insight
surviv respons occur when anim encount danger situations, e.g. flight-or-flight respons (epi/nor), avoid response, alarm respons (e.g. beld ground squirrels)
occur when anim encount danger situations, e.g. flight-or-flight respons (epi/nor), avoid response, alarm respons (e.g. beld ground squirrels) surviv respons
parent care innat behavior in respons to produc offspring, e.g. bird incub of egg and feed of hatchlings, seahors deposit of egg into male pouch, mammal product of milk and protect
innat behavior in respons to produc offspring, e.g. bird incub of egg and feed of hatchlings, seahors deposit of egg into male pouch, mammal product of milk and protect parent care
forag behavior visual and chemic stimuli induce, incl. flower color/sc (coevolution), fruit color/sc (avoid toxins), bodi scent (detect presenc of predators)
visual and chemic stimuli induce, incl. flower color/sc (coevolution), fruit color/sc (avoid toxins), bodi scent (detect presenc of predators) forag behavior
kinesi undirect chang in speed of anim movement in respons to stimulus, e.g. lift of log
undirect chang in speed of anim movement in respons to stimulus, e.g. lift of log kinesi
circadian rhythm/biolog clock pattern of physiolog or behaviori  align with 24-hour day, e.g. day/night rhythm of diurnal and nocturn anim (maintain by mt in humans)
pattern of physiolog or behaviori  align with 24-hour day, e.g. day/night rhythm of diurnal and nocturn anim (maintain by mt in humans) circadian rhythm/biolog clock
estiv dormanc dure hot/dri period by burrow into mud or retreat to underground tunnels, e.g. african lungfish
dormanc dure hot/dri period by burrow into mud or retreat to underground tunnels, e.g. african lungfish estiv
chemic communic in anim releas pheromon trigger immedi action, primer pheromon caus developmental/physiolog changes; in ants, releas pheromon use to mark trail to food, primer pheromon releas by queen to prevent worker from develop reproduct abil
type of communic in anim (&amp; examples) chemic (ant pheromones), visual (silverback gorillas), auditori (whale songs), tactil (bee dancing)
forag behavior in anim herds, flocks, and school provid concealment, vigilance, and defense; pack enabl member to corner and attack larg prey; search imag help anim find favor or plenti food
agonist behavior aggress and submission; usual ritualized, e.g. combat in deer
aggress and submission; usual ritualized, e.g. combat in deer agonist behavior
domin hierarchi indic power and status relationship to minim fighting, e.g. peck order in chicken
indic power and status relationship to minim fighting, e.g. peck order in chicken domin hierarchi
territori  possess and defens of territori to ensur adequ food and a place to mate and rear young
 possess and defens of territori to ensur adequ food and a place to mate and rear young territori
eusoci member divid into cast with differ roles; found in mani insect
member divid into cast with differ roles; found in mani insect eusoci
altruist behavior individu fit sacrif for inclus fit (fit of individu plus relatives); occur through kin selection, e.g. beld ground squirrel
individu fit sacrif for inclus fit (fit of individu plus relatives); occur through kin selection, e.g. beld ground squirrel altruist behavior
rubisco fix carbon dioxid by use it carbon atom to manufactur pga; however, when no co 2 is available, such as when the plant stomata are closed, may fix oxygen instead (photorespiration), creat potenti danger compound the cell has to catabol with peroxisom (would not have been a dancer in earli earth atmospher w/o oxygen)
fix carbon dioxid by use it carbon atom to manufactur pga; however, when no co 2 is available, such as when the plant stomata are closed, may fix oxygen instead (photorespiration), creat potenti danger compound the cell has to catabol with peroxisom (would not have been a dancer in earli earth atmospher w/o oxygen) rubisco
fluoresc light emit due to electron fall back down to lower energi level
light emit due to electron fall back down to lower energi level fluoresc
chlorophyl porphyrin ring (light catch array; contain electron that jump to next energi level when struck by light of right wavelength) center around mg atom
porphyrin ring (light catch array; contain electron that jump to next energi level when struck by light of right wavelength) center around mg atom chlorophyl
photosystem energi from a photon of light boost an electron in a pigment molecul to the next higher energi level, where fall back to it origin level releas energi that caus an electron in a neighbor pigment to be boost to a higher level; eventu pass to chlorophyl a molecul that pass electron to primari electron acceptor
energi from a photon of light boost an electron in a pigment molecul to the next higher energi level, where fall back to it origin level releas energi that caus an electron in a neighbor pigment to be boost to a higher level; eventu pass to chlorophyl a molecul that pass electron to primari electron acceptor photosystem
c3 plant evolv in temper climates; in hot dri conditions, partial or complet shut stomata, make calvin cycl half as effici
evolv in temper climates; in hot dri conditions, partial or complet shut stomata, make calvin cycl half as effici c3 plant
c4 plant larg grasses, spatial separ of carbon fixat and calvin cycle; in hot dri conditions, open stomata briefli to admit co 2 that is move to bundl sheath cell without oxygen; calvin cycl requir more atp
larg grasses, spatial separ of carbon fixat and calvin cycle; in hot dri conditions, open stomata briefli to admit co 2 that is move to bundl sheath cell without oxygen; calvin cycl requir more atp c4 plant
cam plant succulentss and cacti, tempor separ of carbon fixat and calvin cycle; stomata open at night to admit co 2 then convert to malic acid and store in vacuol until daytime, when stomata close and malic acid convert back to co 2 to manufactur pga
succulentss and cacti, tempor separ of carbon fixat and calvin cycle; stomata open at night to admit co 2 then convert to malic acid and store in vacuol until daytime, when stomata close and malic acid convert back to co 2 to manufactur pga cam plant
type of survivorship curv type i - most member surviv until old age, then rapid declin due to age-rel problems, e.g. human type ii - death is random and may occur at ani stage of life, e.g. rodent type iii - mani offspr are produc that will not surviv to maturity, but those that do tend to surviv until old age, e.g. oyster
zpg zero popul growth
biotic potenti maximum growth rate of popul under ideal conditions, depend on age at reproduct maturity, clutch size, frequenc of reproduction, reproduct lifeime, and survivorship of offspr to reproduct matur
maximum growth rate of popul under ideal conditions, depend on age at reproduct maturity, clutch size, frequenc of reproduction, reproduct lifeime, and survivorship of offspr to reproduct matur biotic potenti
limit factor prevent popul from attain biotic potential; density-depend (parasites, disease, competition, predation) or independ (natur disasters, climate)
prevent popul from attain biotic potential; density-depend (parasites, disease, competition, predation) or independ (natur disasters, climate) limit factor
reproduct rate r = (births—deaths)/n
popul cycl fluctuat in popul size in respons to limit factors; exponenti growth take popul abov initi carri capacity, caus either popul crash or declin to sustain level (possibl fluctuat around new carri capacity)
fluctuat in popul size in respons to limit factors; exponenti growth take popul abov initi carri capacity, caus either popul crash or declin to sustain level (possibl fluctuat around new carri capacity) popul cycl
r-select vs. k-select speci opportunist speci exhibit exponenti growth vs speci exhibit logist growth with matur popul size remain constant at carri capac of k
opportunist speci exhibit exponenti growth vs speci exhibit logist growth with matur popul size remain constant at carri capac of k r-select vs. k-select speci
gaus principl no two speci can sustain coexist if they occupi the same nich when resourc are limiting, e.g. paramecium
no two speci can sustain coexist if they occupi the same nich when resourc are limiting, e.g. paramecium gaus principl
resourc partit minim of competit by use slight differ resources, e.g. five warbler speci in one tree
minim of competit by use slight differ resources, e.g. five warbler speci in one tree resourc partit
realiz nich in presenc of competitors, speci onli occupi part of fundament nich where competit is absent, e.g. barnacl
in presenc of competitors, speci onli occupi part of fundament nich where competit is absent, e.g. barnacl realiz nich
charact displac select for characterist that enabl resourc partit more efficiently, e.g. galapago finch
select for characterist that enabl resourc partit more efficiently, e.g. galapago finch charact displac
 of predat true predator, parasit (most of life in other organism), parasitoid (lay egg in host to consum tissues), herbivor (grazer/browser)
true predator, parasit (most of life in other organism), parasitoid (lay egg in host to consum tissues), herbivor (grazer/browser)  of predat
mutual +,+; e.g. tree and mycorrhiza
+,+; e.g. tree and mycorrhiza mutual
commens +, 0; e.g. bird nest in tree
+, 0; e.g. bird nest in tree commens
parasit +,-; e.g. tapeworm
+,-; e.g. tapeworm parasit
secondari compound toxic chemic produc in plant to discourag herbivores, e.g. nicotin
toxic chemic produc in plant to discourag herbivores, e.g. nicotin secondari compound
camouflag color, pattern, shape or behavior that enabl anim to blend in with surrounding, e.g. birdshit moth
color, pattern, shape or behavior that enabl anim to blend in with surrounding, e.g. birdshit moth camouflag
aposemat color color or pattern warn predat of danger, e.g. bee black and yellow stripe
color or pattern warn predat of danger, e.g. bee black and yellow stripe aposemat color
müllerian mimicri sever anim with common defens mechan use same coloration, e.g. bees, yellowjackets, and wasp
sever anim with common defens mechan use same coloration, e.g. bees, yellowjackets, and wasp müllerian mimicri
batesian mimicri anim lack special defens mechan mimic color of anim that possess them, e.g. fli with yellow and black mark
anim lack special defens mechan mimic color of anim that possess them, e.g. fli with yellow and black mark batesian mimicri
pollin coevolut of trait benefit both organisms, e.g. hummingbird and red, tubular flower
coevolut of trait benefit both organisms, e.g. hummingbird and red, tubular flower pollin
primari success colon by plant of er barren substrat
colon by plant of er barren substrat primari success
secondari success recolon by plant of substrat partial or entir destroy (may origin in seed bank)
recolon by plant of substrat partial or entir destroy (may origin in seed bank) secondari success
success on rock or lava 1. lichen hold moistur and secret acid to erod rock into soil 2. bacteria, protists, fungi, and moss appear, follow by insect 4. nitrogen-fix bacteria introduc nutrient into soil 3. r-select speci eventu replac by k-select speci
success on sand dune 1. grass adapt to take root in shift sand stabil dune over about six year 2. root of shrubs, follow by cottonwoods, then pine and black oaks, final culmin in beech-mapl climax communiti
old-field success germin of r-select speci from seed bank, follow by region-specif tree
success in lake and pond 1. sand, silt, and decompos veget trans bodi of water into marsh 2. submerg veget follow by emerg veget 3. grasses, rushes, cattail take root at perimet 4. lake fill with sediment and vegetation, becom meadow or part of conifer forest
five trophic level primari produc - primari consum - secondari consum - tertiari consum - detritivores/decompos
primari produc - primari consum - secondari consum - tertiari consum - detritivores/decompos five trophic level
primari product amt of organ matter produc through photosynthet  per unit of time; npp = gpp -- r
amt of organ matter produc through photosynthet  per unit of time; npp = gpp -- r primari product
whi do certain speci have a disproportion impact on the health of the communiti domin speci contribut the most biomass; keyston speci regul number of other species, e.g. grey wolf in yellowstone; invas speci displac nativ speci without natur limit factors, e.g. kudzu
factor influenc number and size of trophic level in ecosystem size of bottom trophic level, effici of energi transfer between levels, stabil of levels, requir of top predat
size of bottom trophic level, effici of energi transfer between levels, stabil of levels, requir of top predat factor influenc number and size of trophic level in ecosystem
bottom-up vs top-down model describ how chang in structur of trophic level are regul by chang in the bottom vs top trophic level
describ how chang in structur of trophic level are regul by chang in the bottom vs top trophic level bottom-up vs top-down model
carbon cycl reservoir in atmospher as co 2 , bodi of water as bicarbonate, fossil fuels, peat, and durabl organ materials; assimil through use in photosynthesi by plant and consumpt of plant by animals; releas through respiration, decomposition, and burn of organ matter
phosphorus cycl reservoir in rock and ocean sediments, assimil through absorpt of inorgan phosphat (po 4 ) by plant and consumpt of plant by animals, releas through decomposit and excret
nitrogen cycl 
transmiss electron microscop electron pass through specimen on slide, object lens, projector lens, and imprint imag on fluoresc screen
electron pass through specimen on slide, object lens, projector lens, and imprint imag on fluoresc screen transmiss electron microscop
scan electron microscop electron pass through lens and beam deflector befor bounc off specimen and hit detector, produc imag on view screen
electron pass through lens and beam deflector befor bounc off specimen and hit detector, produc imag on view screen scan electron microscop
epistasi one gene be depend upon genet background, e.g. hair color gene depend upon bald gene
one gene be depend upon genet background, e.g. hair color gene depend upon bald gene epistasi
pleiotropi one gene influenc two or more seem unrel phenotyp traits, e.g. albin
one gene influenc two or more seem unrel phenotyp traits, e.g. albin pleiotropi
reaction equilibrium forward reaction proceed at same rate as revers reaction
forward reaction proceed at same rate as revers reaction reaction equilibrium
scotop vision occur at [...] level of light and involv [...] (receptors) scotop vision occur at veri low level of light and involv rod (receptors)
[...] vision occur at veri low level of light and involv rod (receptors) scotop vision occur at veri low level of light and involv rod (receptors)
[...]  iron and oxygen and is found in muscl cell myoglobin  iron and oxygen and is found in muscl cell
myoglobin  [...] and [...] and is found in [...] cell myoglobin  iron and oxygen and is found in muscl cell
the sarcoplasm reticulum is [...] the sarcoplasm reticulum is a modifi endoplasm reticulum (found in muscl cells) that help store calcium
the [...] is a modifi endoplasm reticulum (found in muscl cells) that help store calcium the sarcoplasm reticulum is a modifi endoplasm reticulum (found in muscl cells) that help store calcium
the hormon [...] act to inhibit fsh releas the hormon inhibin act to inhibit fsh releas
muscl generat heat by [...] muscl generat heat by carri out shiver respons to cold
[...] generat heat by carri out shiver respons to cold muscl generat heat by carri out shiver respons to cold
skelet and cardiac muscl are [...] due to [...] skelet and cardiac muscl are striat due to the organ of fiber in sarcomer
[...] and [...] muscl are striat due to the organ of fiber in sarcomer skelet and cardiac muscl are striat due to the organ of fiber in sarcomer
a sarcolemma is [...] a sarcolemma is a striat muscl cell plasma membran
a [...] is a striat muscl cell plasma membran a sarcolemma is a striat muscl cell plasma membran
t-tubul are indent in the [...] that are connect to the [...] . action potenti travel down these t-tubul from neighbor neuron trigger [...] releas from [...] into the cytoplasm that allow troponin to remov tropomyosin and allow muscl to contract t-tubul are indent in the sarcolemma that are connect to the sarcoplasm reticulum . action potenti travel down these t-tubul from neighbor neuron trigger ca ++ releas from sarcoplasm reticulum into the cytoplasm that allow troponin to remov tropomyosin and allow muscl to contract
[...] are indent in the sarcolemma that are connect to the sarcoplasm reticulum. action potenti travel down these [...] from neighbor neuron trigger ca ++ releas from sarcoplasm reticulum into the cytoplasm that allow troponin to remov tropomyosin and allow muscl to contract t-tubul are indent in the sarcolemma that are connect to the sarcoplasm reticulum. action potenti travel down these t-tubul from neighbor neuron trigger ca ++ releas from sarcoplasm reticulum into the cytoplasm that allow troponin to remov tropomyosin and allow muscl to contract
the a-band of a sarcomer has [...] and goe for the length of the myosin the a-band of a sarcomer has both myosin and actin and goe for the length of the myosin
the [...] -band of a sarcomer has both myosin and actin and goe for the length of the myosin the a -band of a sarcomer has both myosin and actin and goe for the length of the myosin
the i-band of a sarcomer has [...] the i-band of a sarcomer has onli actin (thin filaments)
the [...] -band of a sarcomer has onli actin (thin filaments) the i -band of a sarcomer has onli actin (thin filaments)
tendon are [...] tendon are connect tissu that anchor muscl to bone
[...] are connect tissu that anchor muscl to bone tendon are connect tissu that anchor muscl to bone
type [...] muscl fiber have more mitochondria type i muscl fiber have more mitochondria
type i muscl fiber have [...] mitochondria type i muscl fiber have more mitochondria
type [...] muscl fiber have fewer mitochondria type ii muscl fiber have fewer mitochondria
type ii muscl fiber have [...] mitochondria type ii muscl fiber have fewer mitochondria
type [...] muscl fiber use aerob respir type i muscl fiber use aerob respir
type i muscl fiber use [...] respir type i muscl fiber use aerob respir
type [...] muscl fiber use anaerob respir type ii muscl fiber use anaerob respir
type ii muscl fiber use [...] respir type ii muscl fiber use anaerob respir
type [...] muscl fiber contract slowli (speed) type i muscl fiber contract slowli (speed) it take time for mitochondria to make energi
type i muscl fiber contract [...] (speed) type i muscl fiber contract slowli (speed) it take time for mitochondria to make energi
type [...] muscl fiber contract quick (speed) type ii muscl fiber contract quick (speed)
type ii muscl fiber contract [...] (speed) type ii muscl fiber contract quick (speed)
type [...] muscl fiber are red color type i muscl fiber are red color
type i muscl fiber are [...] color type i muscl fiber are red color
type [...] muscl fiber are white color type ii muscl fiber are white color
type ii muscl fiber are [...] color type ii muscl fiber are white color
type [...] muscl fiber are resist to be fatigu type i muscl fiber are resist to be fatigu
type i muscl fiber are [...] fatigu type i muscl fiber are resist to be fatigu
type [...] muscl fiber are easili fatigu type ii muscl fiber are easili fatigu
type ii muscl fiber are [...] fatigu type ii muscl fiber are easili fatigu
type [...] muscl fiber store energi in the  of triglycerid type i muscl fiber store energi in the  of triglycerid
type i muscl fiber store energi in the  of [...] type i muscl fiber store energi in the  of triglycerid
type [...] muscl fiber store energi in the  of atp and creatin phosphat type ii muscl fiber store energi in the  of atp and creatin phosphat
type ii muscl fiber store energi in the  of [...] type ii muscl fiber store energi in the  of atp and creatin phosphat
type [...] muscl fiber have weak contractil power type i muscl fiber have weak contractil power
type i muscl fiber have [...] contractil power type i muscl fiber have weak contractil power
type [...] muscl fiber have strong contractil power type ii muscl fiber have strong contractil power
type ii muscl fiber have [...] contractil power type ii muscl fiber have strong contractil power
[...] muscl contract the fastest and [...] muscl contract the slowest (relat speeds) skelet muscl contract the fastest and smooth muscl contract the slowest (relat speeds)
skelet muscl contract the [...] and smooth muscl contract the [...] (relat speeds) skelet muscl contract the fastest and smooth muscl contract the slowest (relat speeds)
type [...] muscl fiber are also call slow twitch type i muscl fiber are also call slow twitch
type i muscl fiber are also call [...] type i muscl fiber are also call slow twitch
type [...] muscl fiber are also call fast twitch type ii muscl fiber are also call fast twitch
type ii muscl fiber are also call [...] type ii muscl fiber are also call fast twitch
type i and type ii muscl are subtyp of [...] muscl type i and type ii muscl are subtyp of skelet muscl
[...] muscl are subtyp of skelet muscl type i and type ii muscl are subtyp of skelet muscl
a cross bridg is  by [...] a cross bridg is  by the attach of myosin head to an actin filament
a [...] is  by the attach of myosin head to an actin filament a cross bridg is  by the attach of myosin head to an actin filament
the [...] of a sarcomer is the section with onli myosin (in the middl between two z lines) the "h" zone of a sarcomer is the section with onli myosin (in the middl between two z lines)
the "h" zone of a sarcomer is [...] the "h" zone of a sarcomer is the section with onli myosin (in the middl between two z lines)
[...] molecul in a sarcomer are bound to the z line actin molecul in a sarcomer are bound to the z line
actin molecul in a sarcomer are bound to [...] actin molecul in a sarcomer are bound to the z line
the m line of a sarcomer is the [...] the m line of a sarcomer is the thin line in the veri middl between two z line (in the middl of the h zone)
the [...] of a sarcomer is the thin line in the veri middl between two z line (in the middl of the h zone) the m line of a sarcomer is the thin line in the veri middl between two z line (in the middl of the h zone)
in skelet muscles, calcium  to troponin trigger a con chang in [...] to uncov actin so [...] head can  in skelet muscles, calcium  to troponin trigger a con chang in tropomyosin to uncov actin so myosin head can 
all amino acid exist as ___ zwitterion
what is cortisol stress hormon
as acid increases, hgb affin for o2 ___ decreas
centrosom contain centrioles, compos of microtubul
the citric acid cycl produc gtp, t/f t
calcium releas from the sarcoplasm reticulum  to troponin
how doe competit inhibit work  revers to the  site
what happen to the km and vmax in competit inhibit vmax unchanged, km increas
what doe an uncompetit inhibitor  the e- complex
what happen to the vmax and km of uncompetit inhibit lower vmax and lower km
where do noncompetit inhibitor  at a locat other than the  site
what happen to the km and vmax dure noncompetit inhibit km remain the same, decreas vmax
gut flora are found most in the __ larg intestin
what is the function of dna ligas join strand of dna togeth (okazaki fragments)
what is the equat for osmot pressur pi (osmot pressure) = i* mrt where i= # of solut particl and r is ideal gas constat
what is beta oxid cleav the beta carbon next to the cooh group
what doe chymotrypsin do cleav peptid bond preferenti near hydrophob amino acid (think aromat benzen rings)
what the central dogma of biolog dna-- rna-- protein.
what describ the process of dna becom rna trancsription.
what describ the process of rna becom protein translat
what enzym turn dna into rna rna polymeras 2
a chromosom in g1 made up of how mani chromatid per chromosom 1
what doe n=3 mean 3 type of chromosom
what is ploidi the number of copi of a chromosom
what are the 4 stage of the cell cycl g1, s, g2, m
what is s period of dna synthesi
gap between mitosi and s g1
gap between s and mitosi g2
how mani chromatid in g2 2
how mani chromatid per chromosom after s name 2, sister
what are the phase of interphas g1, s, g2
what connect sister chromatid centromer
two chromosom of the same type are: homolog
karyotop stop mitosi in: metaphas of mitosi
the stage when the nucleus begin to break down and the chromosom becom observ prophas
the stage when the chromosom align in mitosi metaphas
the stage in meiosi when homolog begin to seper anaphas i
what pull the chromosom apart spindl fiber
band pattern is the same for: homolog
cell with the normal amount of chromosom are euploid
what term describ cell with miss or addit chromosom aneuploid
cross over happen in which stage of meiosi prophas i
what % of the dna remain in the daughter cell after meiosi 50%
the dna content of n chromosom with one chromatid per chromosom is: c
when doe cross over take place prophas i of meiosi
what doe a karyotyp identifi chromosom
how doe a karyotyp identifi chromosom size and shape (posit of centromere)
a cell that undergo mitosi after meiosi is a spore
what is a barr bodi an inact x chromosom
a ___ cell undergo meiosi to generat gamet germ
homolog are pair up in meiosi or mitosi meiosis. not mitosi
a karyotyp is uniqu to a: speci
pyruv is convert to acetyl coa in the mitochondri matrix
pyruv is convert to acetyl coa by (and where) pyrvuat dehydrogenase, found insid mitochondri matrix
what are prosthet group nonprotein compon of enzym requir for enzymat ity. not part of origin aa sequenc of protein
what is an enoyl carbonyl with a doubl bond between alpha and beta carbon
each fadh2 produc __ atp 1.5
each nadh produc __ atp 2.5
can viral bud occur in bacteria no, becaus prokaryot have a cell wall
what is thyroxin associ with thyroid, respons for regul metabolism. aka t4
what is the founder effect phenomenon where certain area of world show higher allel frequenc than other
doe salin affect enzym rate yes
where is oxytocin made hypothalamus
what are pseudopodia made of microfila (actin polymerization)
actin polymer to  microfila
where is the mitral valv locat between the left atrium and left ventricl
what is an apoenzym enzym lack it cofactor
what is a holoenzym enzyme+coenzym
what lipid is the compon of myelin sphingomyelin
which channel repolar the membran to it rest potenti k+ (potassium)
a cell that isn't divid but metabol "e" is in what stage of the cell cycl g0 or g1.
what doe the diaphragm do dure inspir contract
what do the intercost (rib) muscl do dure inspir contract, pull rib together, elev rib cage
what happen to the pupil dure the sympathet respons dilat
when are primari oocyt made between fertil and birth
glomerular filtrat rate is *mostly* depend on blood pressur
what do the kidney do in respons to decreas blood pressur decreas blood pressur on juxtoglomerular cell in affer arteriol of kidney  in releas of renin. renin act on angiotensinogen in bloodstream, convert it to angiotensin. angiotensin act on adren cortex to stimul releas of aldosterone, which increas sodium and water reabsorption, increas blood volum and pressur
what is adapt radiat diverg of one speci into multipl differ speci which can occur when the origin speci is geograph isol
what caus a neuron depolar sodium ion move in
what doe calcitonin do decreas blood calcium
what doe parathyroid hormon do increas blood calcium
what are sertoli cell provid nourish for develop sperm cell
what are the step in spermatogenesi spermatogonium-- primari spermatocyte-- secondari spermatocyte-- spermatid-- spermatozoan
what is uniqu about exocrin gland secret through duct
what doe the pancrea produc what is it signal by endocrine: insulin, glucagon exocrin (signal by gastrin): proteolyt enzym (chymotrypsin), lipases, amylases, nucleases, bicarbon
what is the function of adh anti-diuret hormone, fxns to increas water reabsorpt and urin concentr
what is the function of myoglobin storag of o2, no transport
what direct doe rna polymeras travel in what direct doe it synthes in travels: 3-- 5 synthesized: 5-- 3
what kind of polymeras is found in a retrovirus rna depend dna polymeras (revers transcriptase)
what is the function of the leaki potassium channel maintain of rest membran potenti
what is a zymogen inact  of protein
are shorter wavelengths(high freq) more like or less like to be absorb by bodi tissu more like
how mani phosphat are attach to each nucleotid in dna 2
what properti of the lipid sphingomyelin make it import for action potenti it conductivity(or lack thereof), as conduct and insul are relat
error bar are a measur of___ precision: how far from the true valu is it
what is an ideal control group has all the factor of the test group except the thing be test
what are t cell  by antigen present cell
what are antigen present cell b cells, macrophages, dendrit cell
what do antigen present cell do  a mhc
neutrophil and macrophag are part of the innat immun system
what is a spliceosom molecular machin that splice from rna not dna
what doe dna methyl do suppress transcript by condens chromatin
how mani atp are produc in glycolysi 2 total. 4 in, 2 out.
what are the 3 stop codon on dna tga, taa, tag
what doe a kinas do transfer phosphat from high energi molecul (gtp or atp), to substrat
what doe a phosphatas do remov phosphat group from substrat
what is the function of a fibroblast produc ecm
what doe prolactin do stimul breast milk product
what doe oxytocin do stimul breast milk releas (as well as uterin contractions, etc)
what is the function of vldl (veri low densiti lipoprotein) carri fatti acid away from liver
what doe hdl do carri stray fatti acid and triglycerid to liver
what is the ploidi of a secondari spermatocyt and of a primari spermatocyt n, 23/ 2n, 46. chromosom # get halv at meiosi i. loss of sister chromatid at meiosi ii
what direct doe dna polymeras read in 3-- 5
what direct doe dna polymeras synthes in 5-- 3
what is the function of luten hormon stimul leydig cell to promot testosterone-- make sperm. in females, luteal surg  in ovulation.
what is the function of cd8 cell detect and kill intracellular pathogen
what is the function of cd4 t cell helper cells, releas cytokin and help suppress or regul immun respons
what is the function of b cell releas antibodi
maltos is the product of amylas break down starch
what connect the cell in cardiac muscl gap junction (aka electr synapses)
what do tight junction do tight join of cells, prevent movement of shit
what doe the sodium potassium pump do pump 3 na+ out and 2 k+ in. net output of 1+ out of cell, maintain negat potenti insid cell
what do cytotox t cell do kill cancer cell or infected/damag cell
what is the function of a dendrit cell process antigen material, and present it to t cells. act as messeng between adapt and innat immun system
what is the differ between a coenzym and a cofactor a coenzym is organic, while a cofactor is not (usual a metal ion or something)
what event preced the releas of open of na+ channel on the motor end plate,  in depolar of muscl fiber  of acetylcholin to postsynapt membran of sarcolemma
what do reduc condit do in gel electrophoresi disrupt disulfid bond
what do denatur condit do dure gel electrophoresi disrupt interact between monom allow primari structur to be analyz
what is the signific of the hill coeffici higher than 1 meant enzym exhibit cooperativity. sigmoid shape of o2-hemoglobin curv mean hill coefficeint 1
what is the g1/s checkpoint checkpoint befor dna replic take place
what is kd dissoci constant
is pressur lower or higher in the lower extrem higher
the glut4 doe what, and where is it found insulin-regul glucos transport allow diffus of glucos down it concentr gradient into cells. found in adipos tissu and muscle.
what is a chaotrop agent disrupt h bond network by solub hydrophob residu (destroy proteins)
at a ph below the isoelectr point, a protein will have a net posit charg
how do you find the pi of an amino acid without ani acidic/bas side chain take the averag of the amino and carboxi pkas. w
what is the pka of the carboxi terminus 2
what is the pka of the n-terminus ~10
what ribsom subunit type is associ with eukaryot 80s
what ribosom subtyp is associ with prokaryot 70s
how mani read frame doe prokaryot mrna have multipl
a larg kd mean low  affin
the gi tract is deriv from endoderm
what is opson when antibodi  to antigen on a pathogen
what happen to insulin level after a meal increas
what are the fat solubl vitamin deak
where can lipid peroxid be found in the cell, and whi oxygen is need for lipid peroxid (breakdown via addit of o2), and thus take place in mitochondri membrane.
what is trisomi 21 down syndrom
what is trisomi 14 death! whi becaus it has more gene
how doe sds page separ protein ( of gel electrophoresis) base on mass
glucos 6-phosphatas play a role in gluconeogenesi and glycogenolysi
how do you calcul kcat/ what is kcat vmax/[etotal]. turnov number- number of substrat molecul the enzym produc per unit time
what are some start materi for gluconeogenesi lactate, glycerol, alanine. three carbons!
what happen to the galpha subunit of a gpcr when a ligand is bound exchang bound gdp for a gtp. gtp, associ with alpha subunit,  downstream pathway
what enzym catalyz the rate limit step in glycogenolysi glycogen phosphorylas
phosphoglucon is involv in the pentos phosphat pathway
what is the product of the pentos phosphat pathway nadph and five carbon sugar (ribose)
what primarili compos the secondari structur of protein h bond between backbon
alpha helix and beta sheet are an exampl of secondari structur
disulfid bridg are what level of protein structur tertiari
trypsin and lipas function in what part of the bodi small intestin
cytokinesi is possibl becaus of what protein structur microfila
prokaryot flagella are made from ___ flagellin, differ from eukaryotes, where it is made of 9+2 microtubul arrangement.
what are the stage of interphas g1-- s-- g2
the y intercept in a linweaver-burk plot repres 1/vmax
how mani electron doe cytochrom c carri one
ideal pcr primer have a high g-c content, increas the melt temperature. stronger h bonds.
when doe nondisjunct occur anaphas 1 or 2
which amino acid are use to make protein (chirality) onli l
what is euchromatin loose, easili acces to transcript machineri
what is the vasculatur schema arteries-- arterioles-- capillari bed-- venules-- vein
the lower the kd, the higher the  affin
what doe a proteas do hydrolyt cleavag of protein
ectoderm nervous system, epidermis, sens organs, mouth
what doe lipas do hydrolyz fatti acids/fat
protein destin for the cell membran have a signal sequenc to  to rough er
what doe calcium do in the context of muscl movement after ap propog from sarcolemma to t tubul to sarcoplasm reticulum, ca2+ store is releas to sarcomere.  troponin-- pull tropomyosin away from actin-myosin  site which allow myosin to  actin
where is glomerular filtrat the most concentr bottom of loop of henle, which is in medullari collect duct
what are abc transport protein atp- cassett transporters. util energi of atp to energ transloc of substanc across membrane, either for uptak or export.
what is a lipid raft cholesterol rich domain in plasma membrane. cholesterol hold phospholipid togeth at an appropri distance.
the initi filtrat step in the kidney occur due to pressur differ in bowman capsul
nucleotid are bond to eachoth by phosphodiest bond
is loss of appetit a sx of dm no. low blood sugar is common (due to medication), thus sensat of increas appetit s.
is glycolysi exergon or endergon exergon overall. some step are endergonic.
what is the fate of pyruv / electron carrier in gluconeogenesi reduc to glucos and nadh oxid to nad+
what is the function of nadph produc by the pentos phosphat pathway nadph help build molecules. abl to donat it electron to compound that fight danger oxygen molecules. give antioxid their constant flow of electron to fight oxygen radicals.
vesicl exocytosi doe what to membran surfac area increas it
what doe aldosteron do increas sodium reabsorption, which increas blood osmolarity, which increas adh production-- more water reabsorpton-- increas in blood volum and pressur
what doe the kreb cycl produc for each acetyl coa 1 fadh2, 3 nadh, 1 gtp, 2 co2
what doe the movement of cl- ion into an neuron do hyperpolar it and prevent it from fire an action potenti
hyperpolar of a neuron prevent it abil to releas neurotransmitt
a frameshift mutat affect translat
what are the assumpt for hardy-weinberg no mutations, larg population, no net migration, no natur selection, random mate
a low km indic higher  affin between enzym and substrat
what control the anterior pituitari factor releas by the hypothalamus
what control the posterior pituitari neuron stimulus from the hypothalamus
what is a proto-oncogen a gene that, when mutated, becom an oncogen
what is endothelium simpl squamous cell that line blood and lymphat vessel
epi and nor-epi are produc by the adren medulla
where do epi and nor-epi  the cell surfac becaus they are deriv from amino acid and are polar
what happen dure prophas spindl apparatus s, centriol move to poles, nuclear membran disintegrates, chromatin condens
what is produc in oogenesi 1 ovum after 2 divis
what is the 16 or more cell stage call morula
what is the ~64 cell stage call blastula
what is the 1 cell stage call zygot
what doe the parasympathet nervous system do to blood vessel contract blood to skelet muscle, dilat blood to gi muscl
what is iga immunoglobulin (antibody) that protect against toxins, bacteria, and free float viral cell
what doe acth do stimul adren cortex to produc cortisol
how mani carbon are in pyruv 3
how mani carbon in oxaloacet 4
what doe a posit deltah mean rxn requir input of heat
ketogenesi use ___ as substrat acetyl coa or amino acid
a decreas km indic increas substrat affinity/increas veloc
can noncompetit inhibit be overcom with increas substrat concentr no
competit inhibit can be overcom with greater [s]
what kind of sugar doe nadph contain ribose(pentose) becaus it is a nucleotid deriv
fatti acid oxid occur in the _____; synthesi occur in the ______ mitochondri matrix; cytoplasm
pyrvuat is convert to acetyl coa in the mitochondri matrix
increas pka of side chain mean the isoelectr point also increas
when ph is less than pka proton
g cell produc what, and respond to what produc gastrin in respons to peptid in stomach/distension/parasympathet input. gastrin stimul pariet cell to secret hcl.
how do you calcul recombin frequenc # of recombinants/tot # of offspr
what happen to the allel frequenc in hardi weinberg remain the same
are actin filament polymer in muscl contract no
what happen to fsh level after menstruat they are high
what hormon increas to instig ovul lh
what doe aldosteron do to blood k level decreas them becaus of increas k secret
what do exonucleas do cleav nucleotid from end of polynucleotid chain.
the convers of pyruv to oxaloacet requir pyruv carboxylase, co2 and atp
what is a missens mutat one aa substitut for anoth
what is a nonsens mutat lead to a prematur termin
a segment of dna code for a protein is a gene
non-ident copi of chromosom are homolog
non-ident version of a gene are allel
a person carri two differ allel at a given locus is a heterozygot
if an allel is express regardless of what the second allel is, it is domin
when the phenotyp is express as a blend mix of two allel it is refer to as incomplet domin
if two allel are both express and not blend it is co-domin
how do you measur catalyt effici kcat/km
the effect of mutat in one gene alter mani seem unrel aspect of an organ phenotyp is call pleiotrop
mani gene that influenc one trait are call polygen
the likelihood that a person with a given genotyp will express the expect phenotyp is call penetr
express of allel for one gene is depend on a differ gene is call epistasi
a recess allel on the x chromosom in a male will be (expressed/not expressed) express
anion exchang column : negat charg anion
a group of organ capabl of reproduc sexual is a speci
two type of reproduct isol are pre and post-zygot
repr. isol that prevent at of a zygote, such as ecological, temporal, behavior are call prezygot
barrer that prevent the develop surviv and reproduct of a hybrid individu are call postzygot barrier
the creation of a new speci is call speciat
share physic structur  from a common ancestor are homolog featur
featur that serv the same function in differ speci but that are not due to a common ancestor analog featur
when two differ speci come to possess mani analog featur converg evolut
when two speci  from a common ancestor diverg evolut
branch speciat caus by diverg select is cladogenesi (clado-greek for branch)
two speci that go through similar evolutionari chang parallel evolut
spontan polymer of monom with enzym (ear earth) is call abiot synthesi
polypeptid made through abiot synthesi proteinoid
how do you calcul vmax given [etotal] and kcat vmax=kcat[etotal]
when both substrat occupi an  site, what kind of complex is  ternari complex
electrochem signal of the nervous system are action potenti
the bodi of the neuron soma
neuron with one dendrit are term bipolar
neuron with mani dendrit are term multipolar
dendrit ___ signal and axon ____ signal receive, carri away
axon termin in synapt knob
when an action potenti reach a synapt knob it is realeas across the synapt cleft
the electr potenti across the plasma membran rest membran potenti
enzym that pump sodium out and potassium into the cell with the hydrolysi of one atp molecul na+/k+ atpas
channel that allow the ion to leak across the membran accord to their gradient leak channel
sodium ion are pump __ of the cell and potassium ion are pump ___ the cell, dure the rest state out/ into
as a  of the gradient and na/k atpas the insid of the neuron is ___ relat to the outsid negat
a disturb of the membran potenti that caus a wave of depolar to travel along the axon action potenti
after depolarization, the process of___ return the membran to the normal rest potenti repolar
onc the ____ is reach voltag gate sodium channel are open threshold potenti
the rest membran potenti is at ___ volt and the threshold potenti is at ___ volt -70, -50
the process of return to it rest membran potenti is repolar
dure repolar sodium channel are ___ and potassium channel are ___ closed, open
axon are wrap in ___ myelin
in nerv cells, ion channel are concentr at the ____, where there are break in the myelin sheath. node of ranvier
the rapid jump conduct in myelin axon saltatori conduct
action potenti are sped up due to the myelin sheath as the action potenti is forc to jump from __ to __ node to node
na ion are driven ___ the cell by their concentr gradient and ___ the cell by the electr gradient into, out of
k ion are driven ___ the neuron by their concentr gradient and ___ neuron by the electr gradient out of , in to
recoveri period for a neuron after depolar is call the refractori period
in the ___ ____ period, no amount of depolar will induc an action potenti absolut
in the ___ ___ period the amount of depolar requir for an action potenti is much greater than normal relat refractori
the junction between the axon of one neuron and the dedrit of a second neuron or an organ synpas
___ synaps are use in the nervous system chemic
when an action potenti reach the end of the axon ___ are open on the presynapt neuron calcium channel
calcium influx caus ___ of neurotransmitt store in vesicl from the presynapt cell exocytosi
the receptor cell in the postsynapt membran are ion channel that open/clos upon the captur of a neurotransmitt
the ad of the effect of all the synaps imping on the neuron which allow the postsynapt neuron to "decide" whether to fire an action potenti summat
___ neurotransmitt induc the postsynapt neuron to fire excitatori
___ neurotrasmitt further polar (hyperpolarize) the postsynat neuron inhibitori
motor neuron carri messag to muscl and gland known as __ effector
motor neuron are known as effer neuron (to effectors)
sensori neuron are known as affer neuron
the portion of the pns that is concern with conscious sensat and voluntari movement somat divis
portion of pns concern with involuntari process autonom divis
the effer portion of the autonom divis is dividid into two subdivisions: sympathet and parasympathet
fight or flight sympathet
rest and digest parasympathet
cns is compos of brain and spinal chord
cell bodi bunch togeth in the cns are call nuclei
cell bodi of neuron bunch togeth outsid the cns are call ganglia
recombin frequenc = # recombinants/ total # of progeni
spinal cord is involv in simpl reflexes, primit behavior (urination, walking, sex)
hindbrain is compos of medulla, pons, cerebellum
this region of the cns control antigrav postur and balanc and connect the medulla to the upper region of the brain pon
this region of the cns coordin complex movement, balance, postur and spatial equilibrium cerebellum
brainstem includ medulla, pons, midbrain (ascend order)
two general compon of forebrain diencephalon and telencephalon
diencephalon part thalamus and hypothalamus
ascend order from spinal cord to cortex spinal cord- medulla- pons- midbrain- thalamus- cortex
thalamus function relay and process sensori info
hypothalamus function emotions, control endocrin
telencephalon part cerebr hemispher and corpus callosum
what connect the two hemispher corpus callosum
the two cerebr hemispher compos the ___ cerebrum
the gray matter of the cortex is compos of trillion of soma
white matter (inner core of cortex) is compos of myelin axon
frontal lobe function voluntari movement, reasoning, problem solv
pariet lobe function sensat and gustat
tempor lobe function auditori and olfactori process
occipit lobe function visual process
limbic system part cerebrum and diencephalon
the bodi part repres by region on the cortex is known as a homonculus
vagus nerve. type of nerv and function cranial nerv (to and from brainstem) and function to decreas heart rate and increas gi  (parasympathetic)
a sigmoid shape indic cooper 
how doe a blood pressur read occur constrict until no flow is heard. the first point at which it is heard is systolic, the point at which it is no longer heard again is diastol
where are the bond occur in the secondari structur of a protein between backbon amid proton and carbonyl oxygen
pyrimidin are cut 6 member ring
phosphofructokinase-1 is inhibit by atp alloster
secretori protein are synthes and fold in the rough er
what is ubiquitin target a protein for degrad by proteasom
what doe glyceraldehyde-3phosphate-dehydrogenas do catalyz convers of g3p to 1,3-biphosphoglycerate. nad+, pi -- nadh, h+
what doe vasopressin do exact same thing as adh, becaus it is adh. alway drill hole in the collect duct for water uptake.
what are schwann cell myelin produc cell of pns
what are oligodendrocyt myelin produc cell of central nervous system
blood from the small intestin flow to the liver
intern of virus by endocytosi would be mediat by endosom
what do proteas do digest protein into smaller fragment
phosphoenolpyruv is a product of glycolysi
how mani atp are produc per glucos in anaerob condit 2 per glucos
which part of the antibodi recogn foreign pathogen the tip of each light/heavi chain
in muscl contract the ___head  to the ___ filament myosin head, actin filament
whi is atp requir for muscl contract requir to break myosin-actin bond
what doe a reduc agent do in electrophoresi break disulfid bond
protect sheath of brain and spinal cord mening
the soma of all somat sensori neuron are locat just outsid the spinal cord in the dorsal root ganglion
somatic-sensori neuron have (#) synapse(s) between the cns and the target muscle/organ 1
dorsal root ganglion are protect by mening
pre and post ganglion neuron are part of the (autonomic/somatic) nervous system autonom
the pre and post ganglion synaps is locat in the dorsal root ganglion
the locat of the preganglion soma of the autonom nervous system brainstem and spinal cord
the preganglion axon of the sympathet is __ in length short
the preganglion axon of the parasympathet is __ in length long
the postganglion axon of the sympathet nervous system is (long or short) in length long
the postganglion axon of the parasympathet is __ in length short
the ___ releas epinephrin into the bloodstream as part of the sympathet nervous system adren medulla
the two part of the adren gland are the: cortex and medulla
the ___ is part of the endocrin system, releas glucocorticoid adren cortex
sensori receptor that receiv input from the extern world: exteroceptor
sensori receptor that respond to intern stium interoceptor
receptor that respond to chemic chang are chemoreceptor
receptor that respond to pain nociceptor
receptor that respond to mechan disturb mechanoreceptor
receptor that respond to chang in temperatur thermoreceptor
receptor stimul by electromagnet wave electromagnet receptor
awar of self by nervous system propriocept
tast gustat
olfactori receptor are locat in the roof of the nasopharynx
olfactori nerv project to ___ in the brain olfactori bulb
the ___ of the ear releas excess pressur round window
the ___ is a passageway from the back of the throat to the middl ear that equal pressur eustachian tube
path of sound wave auricle- extern auditori canal- eardrum middl ear bone - oval window- fluid in cochlea- basilar membrane- auditori hair cells- tectori membrane- neurotransmitt stimul auditori neuron
the bone of the middl ear are the malleus, incus, stape
the purpos of the middl ear bone is to amplifi the sound wave
pitch is distinguish by which region of the basilar membran vibrat
loud is distinguish chemic by frequenc of action potenti
the ___ are locat in the ear and are involv with maintain balanc semicircular canal
an imag is  on the ___ of the eye which convert the stimuli to action potenti retina
light enter the eye by pass through the cornea
the white of the eye sclera
beneath the sclera choroid
just behind the cornea is the anterior chamber
the anterior chamber contain fluid call aqueous humor
behind the anterior chamber is a membran call the iri
the open in the iri is call the pupil
behind the iri is the posterior chamber
in the back part of the posterior chamber is the len
it job is to focus the incom light on the retina at the right angl len
the curvatur of the len is vari by which muscl ciliari muscl
light pass through the ___ on it way from the len to the retina vitreous chamber
the fluid in the vitreous chamber is the vitreous humor
the retina contain two type of receptor cells: cone and rod
the rod and cone synaps with bipolar cell who in turn synaps with the optic nerv
rod and cone are what kind of receptor electromagnet
the point on the retina where mani axon of ganglion cell converg to  the optic nerv is the ___ also known as the ___ optic disk/ blindspot
this region of the retina contain the fovea centrali (focal point) which contain onli cone macula
rod and cone contain protein which chang their ___ upon absorb light tertiari structur
each rod and cone contain a protein molecul of retin
upon absorb light retin is convert from ___ to ___  tran with one cis - all tran
rod are respons for night vision
cone are respons for color vision
normal vision is call emmetropia
too much curvatur of the len that caus light to be focus in front of the retina myopia
focus of light behind the retina hyperopia
inabl to focus light presbyopia
auditori hair cell are what kind of receptor cell mechanoreceptor
olfactori nerv end and tast cell are what kind of receptor cell chemoreceptor
the signal of the endocrin system is the hormon
a hormon is a molecul which is secret into the __ by an __ bloodstream/ endocrin gland
a ductless gland who secret direct into the blood endocrin gland
these secret their product into the extern environ via duct exocrin gland
a polypeptid that possess a ligand-specif  site hormon receptor
an  which modifi the  of the cell which secret them autocrin
type of molecul that are hydrophil hormon peptid and amino acid deriv
smell olfact
action potenti alway travel at the same ___ but do not alway fire with the same ___ speed/ frequenc
peptid hormon are store in ___ until a signal for secret is receiv vesicl
this type of hormon is synthes onli when need and then use immedi hydrophob (steroid)
___ hormon enter the cell wherea __ hormon stay on the surfac of the cell hydrophobic/ hydrophil
___ hormon affect enzym  hydrophil
___ hormon affect dna transcript in their target cell steroid (hydrophobic)
the adren gland are locat abov the kidney
physiolog consist (part regul by endocrin system) homeostasi
hormon that regul hormon tropic hormon
non-trop hormon direct affect ____ (e.g. concentr of serum x) physiolog endpoint
inhibitori feedback is call negat feedback
the portion of the brain that control mani endocrin function hypothalamus
the hypothalamus control the endocrin system by realeas tropic hormon
these tropic hormones, releas by the hypothalamus affect other tropic hormon in the anterior pituitari releas and inhibit factor
the main gland that the hypothalamus control via tropic hormon is the anterior pituitari
the special mini-circulatori system for the hypothalamus and anterior pituitari hypothalamic-pituitari portal system
anoth name for pituitari gland hypophysi
the posterior pituitari is compos of axon which descend from the hypothalamus
the con chang that allow actin/myosin to move relat to one anoth requir atp hydrolysi
reuptak of calcium into the sarcoplasm reticulum requir atp
the termin electron acceptor in alcohol ferment is nadh cannot be oxid in etc, and thus donat it electron elsewhere. pyruv lose co2 to  acetaldehyde. nadh donat electron to acetaldehyde,  ethanol and nad+.
what are platelet  from megakaryocyt
do platelet have ribosom yes
produc from tyrosine, this modifi amino acid hormon  to receptor in the cytoplasm that regul transcription. thyroid hormon
secret by the adren cortex, this hormon provid energi dure stress cortisol
increas blood o2 and decreas blood co2 doe what to ph increas it (respiratori alkalosis)
is actin thick or thin thin (acthin)
is myosin thick or thin thick
what is the differ betwen nucleosid and nucleotid nucleotid has phosphate, wherea nucleosid just has the sugar and base
hydrophil hormon  to receptor at the cell surface, who, in turn,  a ___ on the insid of the cell second messeng
what is the rate limit enzym for glycolysi pfk-1
what is the rate limit enzym for gluconeogenesi fructose-1,6-biphosphatas
what the rate limit enzym for the tca cycl isocitr dehydrogenas
what the rate limit enzym for glycogenesi glycogen synthas
what is the rate limit enzym for glycogenolysi glycogen phosphorylas
auditori hair cell are what kind of receptor mechanoreceptor
olfactori nerv end and tast cell are what kind of receptor chemoreceptor
when the cytoplasm of two cell are join by gap junction ____ synaps occur electr
the structur that connect the left and right hemisph of the brain corpus callosum
this neurotransmitt is releas by all autonom preganglion axons, all parasympathet postganglion axon acetylcholin
what enzym convert pyruv to oxaloacet in gluconeogenesi pyruv carboxylas
what convert oxaloacet to phosphoenolpyruv pep carboxykinase. gtp -- gdp, co2
what enzym catalyz the convers of fructose1,6biphosph to fructos 6 phosphat fructose16biphosphatase. also produc free pi. rate limit enzym of gluconeogenesis.
what enzym produc glucos from glucose-6-phosph in gluconeogensi glucose-6-phosphatase. also produc free pi
is arginin or lysin more basic arginin
what is unchang in uncompetit inhibit km/vmax
what is the slope of a lineweav burk plot km/vmax
what is specif  enzym unit per milligram of total protein. measur of enzym puriti in a protein.
what elut first in size exclus chromatographi allow largest to elut first
in the autonom nervous system there are (#) synaps between the cns and the target muslce/organ 2
the main neurotransmitt of the somat nervous system acetylcholin
these cell creat myelin schwann cell
a  of summat in which the rapid fire of action potenti caus the epsp or ipsp to pile up tempor summat
a  of summat in which epsp and isp from all of the synaps on the postsynapt membran are sum at a given moment in time spatial summat
excitatori neurotransmitt caus postsynapt depolarization. this is call excitatori post synapt potenti (epsps)
inhibitori neurotransmitt caus postsynapt polarization, also refer to as inhibitori post-synapt potenti (ipsps)
when the sympathet system is  the digest system is (inhibit or stimulated) inhibit
when the parasympathet nervous system is  the urinari system is (stimul or inhibited) stimul
when the parasympathet nervous system is  the bronchial smooth muscl is (constrict or relaxed) constrict (airway closed)
when the sympathet nervous system is  heart rate and blood flow is (decreas or increased) increas
locat of limbic system in the brain between cerebellum and diencephalon
limbic system deal with process emot and memori
these two brain structur relay in to the cerebellum and thalamus medulla and pon
this part of the cns control autonm process such as blood pressure, blood flow, heart rate, respiratori rate medulla
this region of the cns integr visual and auditori in midbrain
this region of the cns that coordin the general pattern of rhythm movement basal nuclei
this type of neuron carri in from the nervous ssytem toward organ which can act on that in efferent/motor neuron
this neurotransmitt is common use in the neuromuscular junction acetylcholin
sympathet post-ganglion neuron releas the neurotransmitt norepinephrin
the ganglia of (sympathetic/para) are close to spinal cord and far from the target organ sympathet
the ganglia of (sympathetic/para) are far from the spinal cord and close to the target organ parasympathet
this type of hormon is produc in the rough er peptid
this type of hormon is produc in the smooth er steroid
this type of hormon must be carri by a protein-carri through the plasma (blood) to their target steroid
this type of hormon dissolv in the bloodstream peptid
this type of hormon has slow and long last effect steroid
this type of hormon has immedi and short live effect peptid
this peptid hormone, releas by the anterior pituitary, target bone and muscl growth and increas cell turnov rate growth hormon
releas and inhibit factor from the hypothalamus are what type of hormon peptid
growth hormon is what class of horomon peptid
this tropic hormone, releas by the ap, increas the releas of thyroid hormone. thyroid stimul hormone.
where is the adrenocorticotrop hormon releas from ap
what type of hormon is the adrenocorticotrop hormon peptid
this hormone, secret by the ap, increas growth and secretori  of the adren cortex adrenocorticotrop hormon
this gonadotrop hormone, secret by the ap, affect ovul and testosteron synthesis. lutein hormon
lutein hormon is what type of hormon peptid
this hormone, produc in the ap target ovary/follicl develep and testes/spermatogenesis. follicl stimul hormon
antidiuret hormon is secret by what gland posterior pituitari
this hormone, produc in the pp, target kidney/wat retent antidiuret hormon
this hormone, secret by the pp, target breast/milk letdown and uterus/contract oxytocin
oxytocin is secret by which gland posterior pituitrari
this hormone, produc in the thyroid, is necessari for physic and mental develop and increas the metabol rate and temperatur of adult thyroid hormon
calcitonin is secret by thyroid c cell
this hormone, secret by thyroid c cells, target bone and kidney and lower calcium ion concentr calcitonin
which gland secret parathyroid hormon parathyroid
this hormone, produc in the parathyroids, target bones, kidneys, small intestin and rais calcium ion concentr parathyroid hormon
thyroid hormon is what kind of hormon modifi amino acid
calcitonin is what type of hormon peptid
the adren medulla secret which hormon epinephrine, norepinephrin
this modifi amino acid hormone, releas by the adren medulla, is involv in the sympathet stress respons epinephrin
cortisol is secret by which gland adren cortex
this hormone, produc in the adren cortex, affect long-term stress response, increas blood glucose, decreas of inflamm and immun cortisol
cortisol is what type of hormon steroid
produc in the adren cortex, this hormon target the kidney and increas sodium ion reabsporpt as a respons to an decreas in blood pressur aldosteron
aldosteron is what type of hormon steroid
the adren cortex secret which hormon cortisol, aldosterone, sex steroid
the ap produc what kind of hormon peptid
insulin is produc in which gland pancrea
insulin is what type of hormon peptid
this hormone, produc in the pancreas, decreas blood glucos and increas glycogen and fat storag insulin
this hormone, secret by the pancreas, increas blood glucos level and decreas glycogen and fat storag glucagon
hormon secret by the pancrea are what type of hormon peptid
this hormone, secret by the pancreas, inhibit mani digest process somatostatin
this hormone, secret by the testes, is involv in male characterist and spermatogenesi testosteron
testosteron is what type of hormon steroid
this hormone, produc in the ovaries, target femal characterist estrogen
estrogen is what type of hormon steroid
this hormone, produc in the ovaries, target pregnanc and endometri (ovarian) secret progesteron
progesteron is what type of hormon steroid
this hormone, secret by the heart, target the kidney and increas urin in respons to decreas blood pressur atrial natriuret factor
the atrial natriuret factor is secret by which gland/organ heart
erythropoietin is secret by which gland/organ kidney
this hormone, secret by the kidney, target bone marrow and increas rbc synthesi erythropoietin
steroid hormon are produc by which gland adren cortex, testes, ovari
lutein hormon is secret by what gland ap
follicl stimul hormon is secret by which gland ap
where are progesteron and estrogen produc ovari
the adren cortex secret which type of hormon steroid
pp secret which hormon antidiuret hormon and oxytocin
this mineralocorticoid is secret by the adren cortex aldosteron
this glucocorticoid is secret by the adren cortex cortisol
the pp secret these hormon oxytocin and antidiuret hormon
what hormon are secret by the pancrea insulin, glucagon, somatostatin
lipid are  on cytoplasm side of this organell endoplasm reticulum
[...] cell per mitosis, like those in the liver, kidney, intestine, blood; won't becom matur gamet somat cell per mitosis, like those in the liver, kidney, intestine, blood; won't becom matur gamet
somat cell per mitosis, like those in the liver, kidney, intestine, blood; won't becom [...] somat cell per mitosis, like those in the liver, kidney, intestine, blood; won't becom matur gamet
process where parent cell will divid so that the offspr will have the same genet in is [...] process where parent cell will divid so that the offspr will have the same genet in is mitosi
​ [...] cell per mitosi to make more gamet cells; are onli in male human not female; will not becom matur gamet ​ precursor gamet cell per mitosi to make more gamet cells; are onli in male human not female; will not becom matur gamet
​precursor gamet cell per mitosi to make more gamet cells; are onli in male human not female; will not becom [...] ​precursor gamet cell per mitosi to make more gamet cells; are onli in male human not female; will not becom matur gamet
​precursor gamet cell per mitosi to make more [...] cells; are onli in male human not female; will not becom matur gamet ​precursor gamet cell per mitosi to make more gamet cells; are onli in male human not female; will not becom matur gamet
special cell that are use in sexual reproduction. gamet
gamet special cell that are use in sexual reproduction.
in human gamet are the sperm (male) and ovum (female)
how doe a somat cell differ from a matur gamet cell ​ ploidi (number of copi of homolog chromosomes)
[...] is number of copi of homolog chromosom ploidi is number of copi of homolog chromosom
[...] are two gene in a pair of homolog chromosom that code for the same trait​ allel are two gene in a pair of homolog chromosom that code for the same trait​
2n = [...] = 2 complet set of homolog chromosom (matern and patern origin) 2n = diploid = 2 complet set of homolog chromosom (matern and patern origin)
all somat cell and precursor gamet cell are [...] all somat cell and precursor gamet cell are 2n
[...] = diploid= [...] ( [...] ) 2n = diploid= 2 complet set of homolog chromosom ( matern and patern origin )
[...] = haploid = [...] 1n = haploid = matur gamet
1n = [...] = matur gamet 1n = haploid = matur gamet
matur gamet are 1n is good in meiosi because... (1 complet set of chromosome) union of sperm nucleus and ovum nucleus will onli produc the right amount of set of chromosom (2n) in the gamet
the purpos of sexual reproduct is so that the offspr will... have the same number of chromosom as the parent (23+23=46)
step in meiosis: meiosi i: (1) interphas (2n) (2) prophas 1 (3)-- prometaphas 1 (4) metaphas 1 (4n) (5) anaphas 1 (6) telophas (7) cytokinesi 1 meiosi ii: (7) prophas 2 (8) metaphas 2 (9) anaphas 2 (5) cytokinesi 1
process: g1, s, g2 interphas
how is genet in pass on from cell to cell within an organism​ mitosi
how is genet in pass on from organ to organ within a speci ​ meiosi
the cell cycl onli appli to eukaryot cell
[...] contain the blueprint for a cell​ chromosom contain the blueprint for a cell​
in the interphas phase, the cell is not [...] in the interphas phase, the cell is not divid
stage within interphas are [...] stage within interphas are g1, restrict point, s, and g2
interphase: g1 phase where cell just divid so now it build membran to get to a size the same as parent, build more mitochondria (divid from parent to two) some cell stay in this phase like neuron
phase where cell just divid so now it build membran to get to a size the same as parent, build more mitochondria (divid from parent to two) some cell stay in this phase like neuron interphase: g1
exampl of cell that are alway in the g1 phase neuron
interphase: restrict point phase where cell stop rebuild "new" organelles. like an intern clock. as the cell sens it environment, it may receiv a chemic signal that tell it to stay or move on to the s-phase
phase where cell stop rebuild "new" organelles. like an intern clock. as the cell sens it environment, it may receiv a chemic signal that tell it to stay or move on to the s-phase interphase: restrict point
interphase: s phase phase in interphas where the cell make copi of dna (chromosomes). accomplish by the dna polymeras 2 enzym that replicates.
phase in interphas where the cell make copi of dna (chromosomes). accomplish by the dna polymeras 2 enzym that replicates. interphase: s phase
interphase: g2 phase (3 events) phase in interphas in which: (1) chromosom becom condensed​ ​(2) centrosom split releas two centrioles​ ​ --- a centriol (microtubul organ center)​ ​(3) each centriol move to the opposit side of a cell
phase in interphas in which: (1) chromosom becom condensed​ ​(2) centrosom split releas two centrioles​ ​ --- a centriol (microtubul organ center)​ ​(3) each centriol move to the opposit side of a cell interphase: g2 phase (3 events)
step in mitosi or "m-phase" are (5): prophase​ ​ prometaphase​ ​ metaphase​ ​ anaphase​ ​ telophas
prophase​ ​ prometaphase​ ​ metaphase​ ​ anaphase​ ​ telophas step in mitosi or "m-phase" are (5):
in g2, the [...] separ and move to opposit end of the cell​ in g2, the centrosom separ and move to opposit end of the cell​
in prometaphase, [...] dissolves; spindl apparatus s​ in prometaphase, nuclear envelop dissolves; spindl apparatus s​
in prometaphase, nuclear envelop dissolves; [...] s​ in prometaphase, nuclear envelop dissolves; spindl apparatus s​
nuclear envelop dissolves; spindl apparatus s​ (diagram)​ prometaphas
phase in which replic chromosom pair with correspond homolog chromosom ,  tetrads, undergo cross over to creat new allel combo prophas 1
prophas 1 phase in which replic chromosom pair with correspond homolog chromosom ,  tetrads, undergo cross over to creat new allel combo
phase in which spindl fiber attach to tetrads, homolog chromosom line up side to side (aka synaps ) metaphas 1
metaphas 1 phase in which spindl fiber attach to tetrads, homolog chromosom line up side to side (aka synaps )
phase in which homolog chromosom are pull apart by spindl fibers, the tension break the centromer and chromatid separ and pull to the centrosom anaphas 1
anaphas 1 phase in which homolog chromosom are pull apart by spindl fibers, the tension break the centromer and chromatid separ and pull to the centrosom
phase in which separ chromosom cluster at opposit ends, membran  , cytokinesi occur telophas 1
telophas 1 phase in which separ chromosom cluster at opposit ends, membran  , cytokinesi occur
phase within telophas in which cell membran pinch cytokinesi
cytokinesi phase within telophas in which cell membran pinch
phase in which chromosom (2n) line up head to toe in the "equator" of the nucleus metaphas ii
metaphas ii phase in which chromosom (2n) line up head to toe in the "equator" of the nucleus
phase in which sister chromatid are pull apart/separated, then cell pinch in the middle, produc four grandaught cell (anaphas ii) telophas ii / cytokinesi ii
(anaphas ii) telophas ii / cytokinesi ii phase in which sister chromatid are pull apart/separated, then cell pinch in the middle, produc four grandaught cell
in prometaphase, [...] has dissolved, duplic set of chromasom and spindl paratus are visible, each macrotubul attach to the homolog duplic chromosom in prometaphase, nuclear envelop has dissolved, duplic set of chromasom and spindl paratus are visible, each macrotubul attach to the homolog duplic chromosom
in prometaphase, nuclear envelop has dissolved, duplic set of [...] and [...] are visible, each macrotubul attach to the homolog duplic chromosom in prometaphase, nuclear envelop has dissolved, duplic set of chromasom and spindl paratus are visible, each macrotubul attach to the homolog duplic chromosom
in prometaphase, nuclear envelop has dissolved, duplic set of chromasom and spindl paratus are visible, each [...] attach to the homolog duplic chromosom in prometaphase, nuclear envelop has dissolved, duplic set of chromasom and spindl paratus are visible, each macrotubul attach to the homolog duplic chromosom
in prometaphase, nuclear envelop has dissolved, duplic set of chromasom and spindl paratus are visible, each macrotubul attach to the [...] in prometaphase, nuclear envelop has dissolved, duplic set of chromasom and spindl paratus are visible, each macrotubul attach to the homolog duplic chromosom
as we proceed to prometaphas , each pair of homolog duplic chromosom is becom associ with microtubul from onli [...] as we proceed to prometaphas , each pair of homolog duplic chromosom is becom associ with microtubul from onli one centriol
what is a uniqu featur in meiosi synaps
in metaphas i , the larg duplic chromosom ( [...] origin) is on the left side and the larg duplic chromosom ( [...] origin) is on the right... but usual random!!! in metaphas i , the larg duplic chromosom ( patern origin) is on the left side and the larg duplic chromosom ( matern origin) is on the right... but usual random!!!
in metaphas i, cell undergo meiosi are at [...] stage in metaphas i, cell undergo meiosi are at 4n stage 4 complet set of chromosom
homolog set of duplic chromosom line up [...] not [...] in metaphas i , also known as synaps homolog set of duplic chromosom line up side by side not head to tail in metaphas i , also known as synaps larg to large; small to small
precursor cell in interphas are in [...] stage precursor cell in interphas are in 2n stage
by the end of [...] , we are left with 2 cell with 2 complet set of chromosom by the end of meiosi i , we are left with 2 cell with 2 complet set of chromosom
by the end of meiosi i, we are left with [...] with [...] of [...] by the end of meiosi i, we are left with 2 cell with 2 complet set of chromosom
cross over onli exchang [...] of chromosom cross over onli exchang fragment of chromosom
in meiosi ii (prophase/prometaphase): each duplic chromosom ( daughter cell ) will now connect to a [...] from each centriole. in meiosi ii (prophase/prometaphase): each duplic chromosom ( daughter cell ) will now connect to a microtubul fiber from each centriole.
in meiosi ii ( [...] ): each duplic chromosom ( daughter cell ) will now connect to a microtubul fiber from each centriole. in meiosi ii ( prophase/prometaphas ): each duplic chromosom ( daughter cell ) will now connect to a microtubul fiber from each centriole.
in metaphas ii: chromasom set are now line up [...] in metaphas ii: chromasom set are now line up head to toe in equat of cell
for sperm the precursor cell is called... primari spermatocyt
for ovum, the precursor cell is called... primari oocyt
as soon as a precursor cell enter meiosi 1 it is destin to becom a gamet
are the new 1n cell at end of meiosi i matur gamet it depend on the organism, if modif are need for function
after anaphas ii and cytokinesi ii, we are left with [...] cell with one complet set of chromosomes... after anaphas ii and cytokinesi ii, we are left with four cell with one complet set of chromosomes...
after anaphas ii and cytokinesi ii, we are left with four cell with [...] of chromosomes... after anaphas ii and cytokinesi ii, we are left with four cell with one complet set of chromosomes...
the goal of meiosi is to produc [...] from one precursor (diploid) the goal of meiosi is to produc 4 gamet cell (1n each; haploid) from one precursor (diploid)
the goal of meiosi is to produc 4 gamet cell (1n each; haploid) from [...] the goal of meiosi is to produc 4 gamet cell (1n each; haploid) from one precursor (diploid)
summar the each process of meiosi (9 steps) 
meiosi label each phase and what occur in each phase label each phase and what occur in each phase meiosi label each phase and what occur in each phase
meiosi label each phase and what occur in each phase label each phase and what occur in each phase meiosi label each phase and what occur in each phase
meiosi label each phase and what occur in each phase label each phase and what occur in each phase meiosi label each phase and what occur in each phase
meiosi label each phase and what occur in each phase label each phase and what occur in each phase meiosi label each phase and what occur in each phase
meiosi label each phase and what occur in each phase label each phase and what occur in each phase meiosi label each phase and what occur in each phase
meiosi label each phase and what occur in each phase label each phase and what occur in each phase meiosi label each phase and what occur in each phase
meiosi label each phase and what occur in each phase label each phase and what occur in each phase meiosi label each phase and what occur in each phase
meiosi label each phase and what occur in each phase label each phase and what occur in each phase meiosi label each phase and what occur in each phase
meiosi label each phase and what occur in each phase label each phase and what occur in each phase meiosi label each phase and what occur in each phase
meiosi label each phase and what occur in each phase label each phase and what occur in each phase meiosi label each phase and what occur in each phase
meiosi label each phase and what occur in each phase label each phase and what occur in each phase meiosi label each phase and what occur in each phase
meiosi label each phase and what occur in each phase label each phase and what occur in each phase meiosi label each phase and what occur in each phase
meiosi label each phase and what occur in each phase label each phase and what occur in each phase meiosi label each phase and what occur in each phase
meiosi label each phase and what occur in each phase label each phase and what occur in each phase meiosi label each phase and what occur in each phase
meiosi label each phase and what occur in each phase label each phase and what occur in each phase meiosi label each phase and what occur in each phase
spermatogenesi vs oogenesi 
the precursor cell of sperm is [...] and origin in the 3rd trimest of fetal develop the precursor cell of sperm is spermatogonium and origin in the 3rd trimest of fetal develop test fulli  (mitosis) and gamet
in theory, a male can [...] spermatogoni cell through [...] until that male dies. in theory, a male can continu to produc spermatogoni cell through mitosi until that male dies.
at the end of spermatogenesi we'r left with [...] that are [...] at the end of spermatogenesi we'r left with 4 spermatozoa that are 1n
in order for a spermatid to be functional/viable, it must be abl [...] so it need to matur and make a [...] in order for a spermatid to be functional/viable, it must be abl to move so it need to matur and make a flagelum take 75 day
the precursor cell of ovum is [...] , origin from 3rd trimest of human develop and stop undergo mitosi so that the precursor cell of ovum is oogonium , origin from 3rd trimest of human develop and stop undergo mitosi so that
the precursor cell of ovum is oogonium, origin from 3rd trimest of human develop and [...] so that the precursor cell of ovum is oogonium, origin from 3rd trimest of human develop and stop undergo mitosi so that
when a femal human is born she has a [...] amount of oogonium to reproduc when a femal human is born she has a finit amount of oogonium to reproduc
after meiosi i in oogenesis, the secondari oocyt is [...] than the first polar bodi after meiosi i in oogenesis, the secondari oocyt is larger in size than the first polar bodi
after meiosi i in oogenesis, the [...] is larger in size than the [...] after meiosi i in oogenesis, the secondari oocyt is larger in size than the first polar bodi
one of the uniqu featur of oogenesi is as we move through meiosi i and meiosi ii the offspr cell are disproportion in size (volum of cytoplasm)
at the end of meiosi ii of oogenesis, one ovum is larger than the other three ( [...] ) at the end of meiosi ii of oogenesis, one ovum is larger than the other three ( polar bodi )
in the cytoplasm of the ovum (viabl oocyte) is the [...] (use as metabol fuel for develop embryo) in the cytoplasm of the ovum (viabl oocyte) is the yolk protein (use as metabol fuel for develop embryo)
polar bodi are [...] in [...] make them nonviabl polar bodi are defici in yolk protein make them nonviabl
when can you see the differ between mitosi and meiosi at metaphas (i)
when duplic homolog chromosom synapse, they are much closer to each other, and so when they touch a break occur then an exchang of region of chromasom happen and final re-ann . this process is called... crossov dure meiosi
crossov dure meiosi when duplic homolog chromosom synapse, they are much closer to each other, and so when they touch a break occur then an exchang of region of chromasom happen and final re-ann . this process is called...
cross over dure meiosi caus variat
after crossover, it is possibl for chromosom to not "re-anneal" so this mean that have a broken chromosom and so miss fragments... caus problem later on
non-disjunct mutat (example) in an oocyt dure synapse, an offspr cell at end of meiosi i is cari an extra homolog chromosom (pull from anaphase). in this caus confus when allel tri to communicate.... caus imbal in the embryo and subsequ newborn . chromosom 21 has an excess like in down syndrome:
in an oocyt dure synapse, an offspr cell at end of meiosi i is cari an extra homolog chromosom (pull from anaphase). in this caus confus when allel tri to communicate.... caus imbal in the embryo and subsequ newborn . chromosom 21 has an excess like in down syndrome: non-disjunct mutat (example)
more exampl of non-disjunct mutat (sex chromosomes): xxx steril femal = reproduct system doe not develop proper
more exampl of non-disjunct mutat (sex chromosomes): xxi steril male (klinefelt syndrome) - reproduct system doe not develop proper
more exampl of non-disjunct mutat (sex chromosomes): oy nonviabl - no x chromosome, which has abund of genes... so embryo will not develop to matur
nonviabl - no x chromosome, which has abund of genes... so embryo will not develop to matur more exampl of non-disjunct mutat (sex chromosomes): oy
more exampl of non-disjunct mutat (sex chromosomes): xo steril female, " turner syndrom " extern female, but intern femal reproduct system will not be functionali
steril female, " turner syndrom " extern female, but intern femal reproduct system will not be functionali more exampl of non-disjunct mutat (sex chromosomes): xo
steril male (klinefelt syndrome) - reproduct system doe not develop proper more exampl of non-disjunct mutat (sex chromosomes): xxi
steril femal = reproduct system doe not develop proper more exampl of non-disjunct mutat (sex chromosomes): xxx
more exampl of non-disjunct mutat (sex chromosomes): xyy steril male " jacob syndrom " caus neurolog disfunct
steril male " jacob syndrom " caus neurolog disfunct more exampl of non-disjunct mutat (sex chromosomes): xyy
fallopian tube when open is in close contact with the ovari
day 15 of 28 cycle: ovari releas a gamet " [...] " that'll be caught by the [...] and move down by small hairlik extens on it wall (5 day approx.) to the uterus. if fertilizaiton hasn't happened, then [...] occur day 15 of 28 cycle: ovari releas a gamet " primari oocyt " that'll be caught by the fellopian tube and move down by small hairlik extens on it wall (5 day approx.) to the uterus. if fertilizaiton hasn't happened, then mens occur
if on day 15, dure ovulation, sperm is present in the fellopian tube (introduc 72 hour prior), the oocyt touch the sperm and so [...] occurs. this [...] is divid through mitosi and move down to the uterus. the [...] implant in the wall of uterus and releas a lot of the "protein signal" [...] (hcg) that indic to the ovari to not begin [...] . if on day 15, dure ovulation, sperm is present in the fellopian tube (introduc 72 hour prior), the oocyt touch the sperm and so fertil occurs. this zygot is divid through mitosi and move down to the uterus. the embryo implant in the wall of uterus and releas a lot of the "protein signal" human chorion gonadotropin (hcg) that indic to the ovari to not begin mens .
how much human chorion gonadotropin hormon doe the embryo produc so much that it is present in urin (pregnanc test)
human fertil cycl label the structur label the structur human fertil cycl label the structur
human fertil cycl label the structur label the structur human fertil cycl label the structur
human fertil cycl label the structur label the structur human fertil cycl label the structur
human fertil cycl label the structur label the structur human fertil cycl label the structur
human fertil cycl label the structur label the structur human fertil cycl label the structur
human fertil cycl label the structur label the structur human fertil cycl label the structur
human fertil cycl label the structur label the structur human fertil cycl label the structur
human fertil cycl label the structur label the structur human fertil cycl label the structur
human fertil cycl label the structur label the structur human fertil cycl label the structur
region between the cornea and the iri anterior chamber
region behind the iri posterior chamber
this type of hormon target enzym  peptid
this type of hormon affect transcript steroid
homolog line up in ___ of (meiosis/mitosis) metaphas i of meiosi
live in the 1800s. an austrian monk who is the "father of genetics," observ the trend in transfer of trait among plants. gregor mendel
the studi of inherit of biolog trait pass on from generat to generat genet
genet the studi of inherit of biolog trait pass on from generat to generat
observation: within a speci offspr tend to resembl the parents. initi theori (2) to whi this was included: blend and particul inherit
theory: gamet had hereditari determin that blend togeth in the offspr blend
blend theory: gamet had hereditari determin that blend togeth in the offspr
blend is a theori in which gamet had [...] that blend togeth in the offspr blend is a theori in which gamet had hereditari determin that blend togeth in the offspr
theory: each determin had a physiolog distinct nature. particul inherit
particul inherit theory: each determin had a physiolog distinct nature.
mendel observ in his experi with pea plant that some pea plant produc [...] seeds​. while other pea plant have [...] seed mendel observ in his experi with pea plant that some pea plant produc smooth round seeds​. while other pea plant have wrinkl round seed
mendel hypothesis: if blend is correct then the seed of the offspr should be a [...] of patch of [...] area and [...] areas​ mendel hypothesis: if blend is correct then the seed of the offspr should be a mix of patch of smooth area and wrinkl areas​
mendel s: after cross polination, he observ the first generat and found that all the seed are [...] ; [...] . he cross polin the f1 generat and found that [...] seed is wrinkl mendel s: after cross polination, he observ the first generat and found that all the seed are smooth ; no appar blending​ . he cross polin the f1 generat and found that 1 of everi 4 seed is wrinkl
mendel conclusion: the hypothesi is [...] . there is [...] of characterist and a recess trait can [...] mendel conclusion: the hypothesi is reject . there is no irrevers blend of characterist and a recess trait can reappear in succeed generat
what mendel observ between his pea plant was a [...] in which the plant were diploid what mendel observ between his pea plant was a monohybrid cross in which the plant were diploid
what mendel observ between his pea plant was a monohybrid cross in which the plant were [...] what mendel observ between his pea plant was a monohybrid cross in which the plant were diploid
in a monohybrid cross, there should be a trait of [...] origin and a trait of [...] origin in a monohybrid cross, there should be a trait of patern origin and a trait of matern origin
in a monohybrid cross, one trait is [...] while the other is [...] . in mendel pea plant experiment, smooth surfac was [...] while wrinkl surfac was [...] in a monohybrid cross, one trait is domin while the other is recess . in mendel pea plant experiment, smooth surfac was domin while wrinkl surfac was recess
genotyp is the [...] of an individu organism. genotyp is the genet constitut of an individu organism. ss, ss, or ss
phenotyp is the set of [...] of an individu  from the interact of it genotyp with the environment. phenotyp is the set of observ characterist of an individu  from the interact of it genotyp with the environment. smooth, wrinkl
how were the gene for seed shape sort by the law of segreg
altern version of gene account for variat in inherit trait allel
allel are [...] of gene that account for variat in inherit trait allel are altern version of gene that account for variat in inherit trait
allel are altern version of gene that account for [...] in inherit trait allel are altern version of gene that account for variat in inherit trait
allel pair separ dure gamet ation, and random unit at fertilization. the law of segreg
the law of segreg allel pair separ dure gamet ation, and random unit at fertilization.
the law of segregation: • for each character, an organ inherit [...] of a gene, one from each parent . • if two allel at a locus differ, then one, the domin allel determin the organ appearance; the other , the recess allele, has no notic effect on the organ appearance. ​ ​• the two allel for a herit charact segreg dure gamet at and end up in differ gametes​ the law of segregation: • for each character, an organ inherit two copi of a gene, one from each parent . • if two allel at a locus differ, then one, the domin allel determin the organ appearance; the other , the recess allele, has no notic effect on the organ appearance. ​ ​• the two allel for a herit charact segreg dure gamet at and end up in differ gametes​
the law of segregation: • for each character, an organ inherit two copi of a gene, one from each parent . • if two allel at a locus differ, then one, the domin allel [...] the organ appearance; the other , the recess allele, has [...] effect on the organ appearance. ​ ​• the two allel for a herit charact segreg dure gamet at and end up in differ gametes​ the law of segregation: • for each character, an organ inherit two copi of a gene, one from each parent . • if two allel at a locus differ, then one, the domin allel determin the organ appearance; the other , the recess allele, has no notic effect on the organ appearance. ​ ​• the two allel for a herit charact segreg dure gamet at and end up in differ gametes​
the law of segregation: • for each character, an organ inherit two copi of a gene, one from each parent . • if two allel at a locus differ, then one, the domin allel determin the organ appearance; the other , the recess allele, has no notic effect on the organ appearance. ​ ​• the two allel for a herit charact [...] dure gamet at and end up in [...] gametes​ the law of segregation: • for each character, an organ inherit two copi of a gene, one from each parent . • if two allel at a locus differ, then one, the domin allel determin the organ appearance; the other , the recess allele, has no notic effect on the organ appearance. ​ ​• the two allel for a herit charact segreg dure gamet at and end up in differ gametes​
if the two allel don't seper as instruct in the law of segregation, this will  in a [...] if the two allel don't seper as instruct in the law of segregation, this will  in a nondisjunct mutat
mendel had to do a test cross to establish that he had a homozyg domin parent​ : hypothesis: the [...] can reveal whether an organ is homozyg or heterozygous. cross it with [...] .  : if ss x ss then all offspr show { {the domin phenotype.}} if ss x ss [...] of the offspr will show [...] mendel had to do a test cross to establish that he had a homozyg domin parent​ : hypothesis: the progeni of a test cross can reveal whether an organ is homozyg or heterozygous. cross it with homozyg recess .  : if ss x ss then all offspr show { {the domin phenotype.}} if ss x ss half of the offspr will show domin phenotype.
[...] is a cross between two differ line (varieties, strains) that differ in two observ traits. in the mendelian sense, between the allel of both these loci there is a relationship of complet domin - recessive. dihybrid cross is a cross between two differ line (varieties, strains) that differ in two observ traits. in the mendelian sense, between the allel of both these loci there is a relationship of complet domin - recessive.
how do you combin gamet for dihybrid cross first, outside, inside, last
when two or more characterist are inherited, individu hereditari factor assort independ dure gamet production, give differ trait an equal opportun of occur togeth law of independ assort
law of independ assort - when [...] characterist are inherited, individu hereditari factor assort independ dure gamet production, give differ trait an [...] opportun of occur together. a allow for variabl in an offspr law of independ assort - when two or more characterist are inherited, individu hereditari factor assort independ dure gamet production, give differ trait an equal opportun of occur together. a allow for variabl in an offspr
law of independ assort - when two or more characterist are inherited, individu hereditari factor assort independ dure gamet production, give differ trait an equal opportun of occur together. a allow for [...] in an offspr law of independ assort - when two or more characterist are inherited, individu hereditari factor assort independ dure gamet production, give differ trait an equal opportun of occur together. a allow for variabl in an offspr
exampl of dihybrid cross: [...] trait in human – the abil for blood to clot quick is a dominant​. the inabl for blood to clot quick is a recess (hemophilia)​. consid the possibl for females​. ​consid the possibl for males​.​ now look at queen victoria grandchilden exampl of dihybrid cross: sex-link trait in human – the abil for blood to clot quick is a dominant​. the inabl for blood to clot quick is a recess (hemophilia)​. consid the possibl for females​. ​consid the possibl for males​.​ now look at queen victoria grandchilden
mendel 2 laws: law of [...] &amp; law of [...] both are base on principl of [...] mendel 2 laws: law of segreg &amp; law of independ assort both are base on principl of meiosi
  
exampl of cross: a rooster with gray feather and a hen of the same phenotyp produc 15 gray, 6 black, and 8 white chicks. ​ ​what is the simplest explan for the inherit of these color in chicken ​ ​what phenotyp would you expect in the offspr of a cross between a gray rooster and a black hen exampl of blending... black pigment + white pigment = gray ani organ that is gray is heterozygous. phenotyp of bb + bb: all black
muscl below heart diaphragm
the area that includ your lungs, heart and diaphragm thorax
the two vein lead to the heart superior and inferior vena cava
main arteri leav heart aorta
befor blood leav heart it goe through the ___ to gain oxygen lung
these blood vessel serv the heart muscl coronari blood vessel
the heart is involv with two type of flow: system flow, pulmonari flow
flow of blood in the heart ra- tricuspid- rv- pulmonari valve- pa- lungs- pv- la- mitrial valve- lv- aortic valve- aorta
valv between ra and rv tricuspid
valv between la and lv mitrial valv
cord that keep valv from flip backward (flow in wrong direction) chorda tendina
muscl that attach the chorda tendina to valv papillari muscl
wall between the rv and lv intreventricular septum
the atrium is (above/below) the ventricl abov
interventricular septum is compos of two parts: membran and muscular
defect when blood flow between the lv to rv ventricular septal defect (vsd)
most intern layer of heart muscl endocardium
intermedi layer of heart muscl myocardium
this layer of heart muscl doe most of the work myocardium
outermost layer of heart muscl pericardium
there is a gap in between the two layer of this layer of heart muscl pericardium
layer of the pericardium closer to heart viscer pericardium
outer layer of pericardium partiet
the fetus heart start pump at week ___ 6
superior vena cava collect blood from ___ arm and head
superior and inferior vena cava flow into the right atrium
this valv connect the rv to the r&amp;l pulmonari arteri pulmonari valv
pulmonari circuit rv- pulmonari valve- pulmonari trunk- pa- lungs- pveins- la
valv between lv and aorta aortic valv
system circuit lv- aortic valve- aorta- body- inferior and superior vc- ra
cell that carri oxygen to rest of the bodi rbc
rbc (need or don't need) oxygen don't!! (no mitochondria or nucleus)
the first organ to get blood flow from system circul heart
these arteri bring oxygen blood to lung bronchial arteri
as mitrial and tricuspid valv are open the ____ valv are close pulmonari and aortic
the first heart sound (s1) is the ___ valv snap shut tricuspid &amp; mitrial
the second heart sound (s2) is the ___ valv snap shut pulmonari &amp; aortic
the gap between s1 and s2 is call systol
between s1 and s2 which valv are open pulmonari &amp; aortic
between s2 and the next s1 (i.e. ______)which valv are open diastol tricuspid &amp; mitrial
the gap between s2 and the next s1 is call diastol
diastol is longer than systol (t/f) true!!! t &amp; m are open for longer
surfac surround endotheli cell basement membran (basal lamina)
basement membran + endotheli cell = tunica intima
three layer of blood vessel (start from lumen) tunica intima- tunica media- tunica externa
tunica media is compos of smooth muscl
littl blood vessel in tunica externa vasa vasorum
these blood vessel have a larger tunica media and an elast protein (elastin) for high pressur larg arteri
these blood vessel have larg tunica media with onli muscl and no elastin small arteries/arteriol
these blood vessel have veri small lumen and their wall are made of a singl cell layer capillari
these blood vessel transport blood from arteri to vein capillari
pulmonari arteri carri (oxygen or deoxygenated) blood to the lung deoxygen
arteri typic carri (oxygen or deoxygenated) blood to the tissu oxygen
the pressur in the arteri is typic (higher or lower) than the vein higher
65% of our blood is in our ____ at ani point in time vein
the blood vessel system that is low pressur and high volum vein
this blood vessel system has no valv arteri
the radius is (proport or invers proportional) to resist in flow through a tube invers proprot
when the smooth muscl of arteriol are relax we call this vaso-dil
dure vasodil resist to blood flow is (high or low) low
when the muslc surround the arteriol are constrict we call this vaso-constrict
dure vaso-constriction, resist to blood flow is (high or low) high!!!!
a small branch of an arteri lead to capillari arteriol
dure (diastol or systole) the heart muscl relax as the chamber fill with blood diastol
deltap= q*r
in the equat p=q*r, q is blood flow (volume/ min)
r (resistance) is proport to 1/radius^4
capillari bed allow exchang of ___ between the blood and tissu oxygen
when it hot out and our bodi want to get rid of heat, our capillari (dilat or constrict) dilat (capillari act as vents)
it was in the 19th and earli 20th centuri that major observ were made to contribut to figur out the origin of life. chemist figur out that all life  are [...] it was in the 19th and earli 20th centuri that major observ were made to contribut to figur out the origin of life. chemist figur out that all life  are carbon base
the [...] help explain how the univers operates, show that the natur state of the univers is disord and that life  repres [...] , therefor they are [...] at the expens of [...] the 2nd law of thermodynam help explain how the univers operates, show that the natur state of the univers is disord and that life  repres order , therefor they are maintain at the expens of energi product in other words, in order for life  to surviv it has to expend energy.
the current environ is [...] . this kind of environ doe not [...] the [...] product of complex molecul even when [...] . the current environ is oxyd . this kind of environ doe not favor the spontan product of complex molecul even when energi is avail . oxygen is molecul of o 2 - due to ioniz radiation, this molecul can separ into 3 radic oxygens, search for electron (butter= melt or metal= rusting).
becaus of this oxid environment, chemist propos that life come from [...] becaus of this oxid environment, chemist propos that life come from life no such thing as spontan generation!!! sexual reproduct produc variation...
which chemist (2) propos hypothesis for origin of life j.b.s. haldan &amp; alexand oparin
j.b.s. haldan &amp; alexand oparin both independ had an [...] idea as to the origin of life, which was that the origin atmospher [...] it was [...] j.b.s. haldan &amp; alexand oparin both independ had an origin idea as to the origin of life, which was that the origin atmospher wasn't oxid it was reduc
j.b.s. haldan &amp; alexand oparin propos reduc environ made life possibl becaus in such an environ complex organ molecul [...] when [...] j.b.s. haldan &amp; alexand oparin propos reduc environ made life possibl becaus in such an environ complex organ molecul can  spontan when energi is provided.
oparin said “…it is intrins to the natur of carbon that it will  polymers…” mean that when we look at the period tabl carbon is by design an atom that want to link to other carbon  bonds... so life  must be the  of [...] oparin said “…it is intrins to the natur of carbon that it will  polymers…” mean that when we look at the period tabl carbon is by design an atom that want to link to other carbon  bonds... so life  must be the  of carbon polym wrote:
miller and urey read oparin the origin of life in the late 1940's, read that in a reduc environ complex organ molecul can  spontan when energi is provided... they conduct their experi "miller/urey experiment," a seri of tube to take out o 2  a [...] that contain water that was heated, in which they made [...] and at least 2 [...] ." this is the [...] product of organ molecules. they have made [...] from [...] sources. miller and urey read oparin the origin of life in the late 1940's, read that in a reduc environ complex organ molecul can  spontan when energi is provided... they conduct their experi "miller/urey experiment," a seri of tube to take out o 2  a reduc environ that contain water that was heated, in which they made glucos and at least 2 amino acid ." this is the abiot product of organ molecules. they have made organ molecul from inorgan sources. without life (abiotic) = steril
age of the earth: between [...] year old age of the earth: between 6 and 7 billion year old
uniqu featur of earth: [...] in [...] state: – atmosphere: – distanc from the [...] allow it to be in this state (not too close or too far) – [...] mass: abl to hold it in uniqu featur of earth: water in liquid state: – atmosphere: – distanc from the sun allow it to be in this state (not too close or too far) – gravit mass: abl to hold it in
abiot period → [...] environ : – [...] to [...] billion year ago – at of [...] molecules: examples: amino acids, sugars, nucleotides, fatti acid → at of phospholipid → bilayer→ proto-cel ! ani proof in natur carbonac chondrit abiot period → reduc environ : – 4.5 to 3.5 billion year ago – at of organ molecules: examples: amino acids, sugars, nucleotides, fatti acid → at of phospholipid → bilayer→ proto-cel ! ani proof in natur carbonac chondrit right balanc of all element to produc organ life
abiot period → reduc environ : – 4.5 to 3.5 billion year ago – at of organ molecules: examples: [...] , [...] , [...] , [...] → at of [...] → [...] → [...] ! ani proof in natur [...] abiot period → reduc environ : – 4.5 to 3.5 billion year ago – at of organ molecules: examples: amino acid , sugar , nucleotid , fatti acid → at of phospholipid → bilay → proto-cel ! ani proof in natur carbonac chondrit right balanc of all element to produc organ life
it postul that the first life were [...] it postul that the first life were prokaryot
if first life  were prokaryotes, then probabl similar to [...] . if first life  were prokaryotes, then probabl similar to bacteria .
if first life  were prokaryotes, then they were compos of [...] , [...] , [...] , and [...] if first life  were prokaryotes, then they were compos of plasma membran , cytoplasm , circular dna , and ribosom
if first life  were prokaryotes, then they would have been [...] becaus no free [...] would have done [...] metabolism/ [...] if first life  were prokaryotes, then they would have been anaerob becaus no free o 2 would have done anaerob metabolism/ glycolisi
if first life  were prokaryotes, then in that reduc environ the at of organ molecul would have been [...] ... so must have been [...] (eat each other to stay alive). therefor there was [...] for surviv if first life  were prokaryotes, then in that reduc environ the at of organ molecul would have been slow ... so must have been heterotroph (eat each other to stay alive). therefor there was fierc competit for surviv bacteria can divid everi 15 minut
  bacteria can divid everi 15 minut
what is the evidence/proof that first life  were prokaryot what is it sinc when stromatolit ... look like concret mushrooms. bacteria live here take na ion from water make stromatolites. date 3.5 billion year ago .
3 billion year ago was the emerg of [...] 3 billion year ago was the emerg of photosynthesi
a photosynthet organ is an [...] . it can use [...] sourc to make [...] . organ that have master this method includ green sulfur bacteria: co 2 + hydrogen sulfid + light energi = glucos + sulfur blue green bacteria : 6co 2 + 12 h 2 o + light energi = glucos + 6o 2 + 6h 2 o a photosynthet organ is an autotroph . it can use inorgan sourc to make glucos . organ that have master this method includ green sulfur bacteria: co 2 + hydrogen sulfid + light energi = glucos + sulfur blue green bacteria : 6co 2 + 12 h 2 o + light energi = glucos + 6o 2 + 6h 2 o
a photosynthet organ is an autotroph . it can use inorgan sourc to make glucos . organ that have master this method includ [...] : co 2 + hydrogen sulfid + light energi = glucos + sulfur [...] : 6co 2 + 12 h 2 o + light energi = glucos + 6o 2 + 6h 2 o a photosynthet organ is an autotroph . it can use inorgan sourc to make glucos . organ that have master this method includ green sulfur bacteria : co 2 + hydrogen sulfid + light energi = glucos + sulfur blue green bacteria : 6co 2 + 12 h 2 o + light energi = glucos + 6o 2 + 6h 2 o
differ between green sulfur and blue green bacterias: green sulfur use carbon dioxide, hydrogen sulfur and light energi to produc glucos and sulfur . blue green use carbon dioxide, water , and light energi to produc glucose, oxygen and water
photosynthet autotroph can make their own [...] rapidly. [...] was a by-product of the reaction 3 billion year ago to 2.5 billion year ago [...] combin with metal ion to  [...] . proof this happen the [...] bed can be date between 3 and 2.5 billion year ago. photosynthet autotroph can make their own glucos rapidly. o 2 was a by-product of the reaction 3 billion year ago to 2.5 billion year ago o 2 combin with metal ion to  metal oxid . proof this happen the iron oxid bed can be date between 3 and 2.5 billion year ago.
2.5 to 2.0 billion year ago, the atmospher shift to [...] ! ramif [...] !!! the anaerob organ either: die off (extinct), move to environ that lack o 2 , or adapt 2.5 to 2.0 billion year ago, the atmospher shift to oxyd ! ramif mass extinct !!! the anaerob organ either: die off (extinct), move to environ that lack o 2 , or adapt
2.5 to 2.0 billion year ago, the atmospher shift to oxydizing! ramif mass extinction!!! the anaerob organ either: [...] , [...] , or [...] 2.5 to 2.0 billion year ago, the atmospher shift to oxydizing! ramif mass extinction!!! the anaerob organ either: die off (extinct) , move to environ that lack o 2 , or adapt
2.5 to 2.0 billion year ago, when the atmospher shift to oxid (becaus of metal oxidation), anaerob organ adapt mean they had to  mechan to [...] oxygen. prokaryot  [...] use o 2 as a [...] and could surviv in the o 2 enhanc environ 2.5 to 2.0 billion year ago, when the atmospher shift to oxid (becaus of metal oxidation), anaerob organ adapt mean they had to  mechan to detoxifi oxygen. prokaryot  electron transport chain use o 2 as a final electron acceptor and could surviv in the o 2 enhanc environ final electron acceptor: biproduct is water
2.5 to 2.0 billion year ago, when the atmospher shift to oxid (becaus of metal oxidation), anaerob organ adapt mean they had to  mechan to detoxifi oxygen. prokaryot  electron transport chain use o 2 as a final electron acceptor and could [...] in the o 2 enhanc environ 2.5 to 2.0 billion year ago, when the atmospher shift to oxid (becaus of metal oxidation), anaerob organ adapt mean they had to  mechan to detoxifi oxygen. prokaryot  electron transport chain use o 2 as a final electron acceptor and could surviv in the o 2 enhanc environ final electron acceptor: biproduct is water
[...] hypothesi of [...] propos that there was a proto-mitochondrion that had electron transport chain and a proto-eukaryot that attempt to eat the proto-mitochondrion, but instead  in an [...] , one organ live insid anoth aka [...] lynn marguli hypothesi of endosymbiosi propos that there was a proto-mitochondrion that had electron transport chain and a proto-eukaryot that attempt to eat the proto-mitochondrion, but instead  in an endo-symbiont , one organ live insid anoth aka endosymbiosis.
endosymbiosi is a process in which [...] , [...] to both with [...] endosymbiosi is a process in which two organ live togeth , mutut benefici to both with one insid the other
endosymbiosi allow the [...] of a [...] organ that could live in a [...] environ endosymbiosi allow the rapid at of a hybrid organ that could live in a o 2 toxic environ
  
  
whi was lynn marguli hypothesi of endosymbiosi reject in the 1970s too mystical... happen rapidly.
what was the select advantag achiev by the endosymbiont through the etc (electron transport chain), these organ coupled: the detoxif of o 2 to the oper of proton pumps, that provid the drive forc to run atp synthas the  is the huge atp yield from aerob metabolism!!!  eukaryotes!!!
by 2 billion year ago life  can be divid into [...] by 2 billion year ago life  can be divid into three domain
as we begin to look at lifes, it evid that they have [...] as we begin to look at lifes, it evid that they have share deriv trait
similar featur in various organ may be the  of (2): - evolv from common ancestor - independ arriv at the same solut to adapt similarili (but less plausible)
4 characterist share with a common ancestor include: plasma membran that use the same type of phospholipid cytoplasm dna/rna glycolysi
share deriv trait point to common ancestor be (2): prokaryot ( bacteria and archaean; shape like littl pillow and emerald green )
archaean are prokaryot that have plasma membran and cytoplasm, but also special becaus they have [...] (like in eukaryotes) and structur of rna polymeras similar to eukaryot archaean are prokaryot that have plasma membran and cytoplasm, but also special becaus they have larg ribosom (like in eukaryotes) and structur of rna polymeras similar to eukaryot
archaean are prokaryot that have plasma membran and cytoplasm, but also special becaus they have larg ribosom (like in eukaryotes) and [...] similar to eukaryot archaean are prokaryot that have plasma membran and cytoplasm, but also special becaus they have larg ribosom (like in eukaryotes) and structur of rna polymeras similar to eukaryot
eukaryot can be [...] , and membrane-bound subcompart eukaryot can be uni and multicelluar , and membrane-bound subcompart
eukaryot can be uni and multicelluar, and [...] subcompart eukaryot can be uni and multicelluar, and membrane-bound subcompart
unicelluar eukaryot are in kingdom [...] unicelluar eukaryot are in kingdom protista
exampl of organ in kingdom protista: [...] exampl of organ in kingdom protista: photosynthet autotroph and heterotroph
some organ in kingdom protista can have a [...] cover on their surfac some organ in kingdom protista can have a hard miner cover on their surfac
some organ in kingdom protista can be [...] - trypanosom some organ in kingdom protista can be nasti parasit - trypanosom
all organ in kingdom protista are [...] ; but some join togeth to be [...] . but can surviv by itself so no true multicellular life  all organ in kingdom protista are unicellular eukaryot ; but some join togeth to be coloni life  . but can surviv by itself so no true multicellular life 
all organ in kingdom protista are unicellular eukaryotes; but some join togeth to be coloni life s. but can surviv by itself so [...] all organ in kingdom protista are unicellular eukaryotes; but some join togeth to be coloni life s. but can surviv by itself so no true multicellular life 
all organ in kingdom protista are no true multicellular life  have high [...] develop all organ in kingdom protista are no true multicellular life  have high sophist organell develop
all organ in kingdom protista are both [...] troph all organ in kingdom protista are both hetero- and auto- troph
kingdom protista first appear in the age between [...] kingdom protista first appear in the age between 2 and 1 billion year ago
kingdom fungi includ organ like [...] kingdom fungi includ organ like single-cel yeast or multicellular mushroom
kingdom fungi are [...] - [...] [...] ; kingdom fungi are non - photosynthet heterotroph ;
organ in kingdom fungi have a [...] , but the primari compon is [...] organ in kingdom fungi have a cell wall , but the primari compon is a protein/carbohydr chitin chitin make it be in the kingdom fungi!!!!
organ in kingdom fungi play a vital role in the [...] of organ matter – [...] organ in kingdom fungi play a vital role in the decomposit of organ matter – saprophyt
kingdom animalia are compos of [...] kingdom animalia are compos of multi-cellular heterotroph
kingdom planta are compos of [...] , includ (4): [...] kingdom planta are compos of multi-cellular, photosynthet autotroph , includ (4): moss, fern, evergreens, and flower plant
basic featur of organ in kingdom planta includ it [...] basic featur of organ in kingdom planta includ it phylum
the three layer of heart muscl (from inner to outer): endocardium- myocardium- epi(peri)cardium
special epitheli cell that line blood vessel lumen endotheli
the non-react of the immun system to self particl toler
the protein that pathogen make are call antigen
molecul use for cell signal cytokin
a type of cytokin releas by infect cell to initi an immun respons chemokin
viruses, bacteria, parasit and fungi that the immun system respond to are call pathogen
physic barriers, defens mechan and general immun respons make up the innat immun system
skin, gi tract, resp. tract are exampl of this part of the innat immun system physic barrier
secretions, mucuous, bile, gastric acid are exampl of what compon of the innat immun system defens mechan
inflamm and complement are exampl of this part of the innat immun system general immun respons
non-specif part of immun system innat immun system
part of the innat immun system, these cell envelop a pathogen phagocyt
phagocyt per a version of endocytosi call phagocytosi
a vesicl or membran insid the phagocyt that contain the pathogen is call a phagosom
this protein attach to the broken down pathogen protein insid the phagocyt or b-cell and bring it to the surfac major histocompat complex ii (mhc ii)
phagocyt and b-cell are also call ____ becaus of the mhcii action antigen present cell
three type of phagocyt neutrophils, macrophages, dendrit cell
barriers, inflammatori respons and phagocyt are all part of the innat immun system
white blood cell name leukocyt
anoth name for the specif immun system adapt immun system
phagocyt and lymphocyt are both white blood cell
main cell in adapt immun system lymphocyt
these lymphocyt are produc in bone marrow b-lympohcyt
these lymphocyt are produc in thalamus t-lymphocyt
these cell of the adapt immun system produc a humor respons (pathogen in fluid/humor, not insid cells) b-cell
membran bound antibodi immunoglobulin
these cell have membran bound antibodi b-lymphocyt
antibodi  to this part of pathogen epitop
when a b-lymphocyt antibodi  to a pathogen the cell doe two things: replic &amp; present mhc ii complex
b-cell replic and differenti into these two type of cell when they attach to an antigen: memori cell &amp; effector cell
these  b-cell are antibodi factori effector b cell
the process wherebi antibodi produc by effector b cell attach themselv to a pathogen and tag them for phagocyt to eat them up opson
tag cell are eaten up by ___ phagocyt
mhc ii are found in both ___ and ___ phagocyt and b cell
t cell that kill other cell cytox t cell
b and t cell are all what kind of cell lymphocyt
a subtyp of wbc in the immun system lymphocyt
b-cell main function produc antibodi
while both phagocyt and b-cell endocytos antigen and produc mhcii complexes, phagocyt are part of the ___ immun system while b-cell are part of the ___ immun system innat (non-specific), adapt (specific)
immun cell that have never been  are term naiv
when a helper t cell is  it replic and produc these two type of helper t cell effector and memori t cell
helper t cell are  when they attach to a ___ on a phagocyt mhc ii complex
effector helper-t cell releas these protein that rais the alarm': cytokin
cytokin tell these cell to get in gear and divid more often cytox t cell and  b cell
t cell receptor are (specif or general) specific!!
b cell have (specif or general) antibodi receptor specif
in order for a b cell to becom  a ____ cell must attach to the mhcii complex helper t cell
onc the b cell attach to an antigen and produc the mhcii complex it becom  (t/f) false!! need helper t cell to attach to 
phagocyt have (specif or general) receptor general
these lymphocyt produc a humor (non-cel mediated) respons b cell
these lymphocyt produc a cell mediat respons t cell
these two adaptive-immune-system cell type are lymphocyt b and t cell
the cell mediat respons of the adapt immun system involv these cells: helper t cell and cytox t cell
red blood cell have a spectrin web (true or false) true!
red blood cell contain tubulin (t/f) ffff
all nucleat cells, includ b cells, have a major histocompat complex call ___ mhc i
the onli cell that don't have mhc i complex (don't have a nucleus) are ___ rbc
these cell  to mhc i complex cytox t-cell
cytox t-cell are (gener or specific) to the mhc i complex they  to specif
when cytox t-cell attach to a mhc i complex they replic into these two type of cells: helper and effector cytox t cell
when antibodi produc by b-cell attach to their specfic antigen they can either render them ineffect or tag them for ____ phagocytosi
effector b cell common call plasma cell
in addit to membran bound receptor helper t cell also have ____ that  to mhc ii complex cd4
in addit to membran bound receptor cytox t cell also have ____ receptor that  to mhc ii complex cd8
when  cytox t cell ____ kill bad cell
helper t cell releas ____ when  cytokin
the daughter cell of b and t cell will have antibodi that are ident to it parent (t/f) false!!! they each develop uniqu antibodi
b &amp; t cell migrat to and wait in the _____ for the antigen present dendrit cell lymph node
onc b&amp;t cell are  in the lymph nodes, they replic and their daughter cell are (ident or different) than their parent cell identicall
the process: differenti of lymphocytes- ation- non-differenti of daughter cells, is call clonal select
each b &amp; t cell produc uniqu antibody/receptor through ____ genet shuffl
b cell don't respond to self proteins, becaus those that do respond to self protein are ___ dure earli stage of develp in the bone marrow or thymus kill off
the necess for  of b cell by ____ is a defens mechan against b-cell produc antibodi to self protein helper t cell
diseas where the immun system respond to self as if it were non-self auto immun diseas
this autoimmun diseas  in the inabl to  muslc fiber myasthenia gravi
a type of phagocyt that engulf an antigen and alert endotheli cell to alert the neutrophil in the blood macrophag
these phagocyt circul in the blood, enter the tissu and after they eat pathogen they die and becom pus neutrophil
macrophag reach the b and t cell by circul through the bodi in the blood (t/f) false! they can't pass through endotheli cell to get into the blood
neutrophil can squeez through endotheli cell to get to macrophag in tissu (t/f) true! cool
macrophag reach b&amp;t cell through passg in ___ lymphat vessel
macrophag both alert neutrophil to come eat antigen and travel to the ____ to present their antigen to b &amp; t cell lymph node
upon be ated, t cell and antibodi from b cell leav the lymph node = enter the bloodstream through the ___ thorac duct
this stem cell in our bone marrow that can make all 10 type of blood cell multipot hematopoiet stem cell
the two lineag of the pluriopot hematopoet stem cell are myeloid &amp; lymphoid
lymphoid cell can make these 3 type of cell b, t, nk cell
this descend of the myeloid cell make this cell that make platelet megakaryocyt
macrophag are descend of ___ which are descend of myeloid cell monocyt
dendrit cell descend from both lymphoid and myeloid line (t/f) true! they are weird!!!
neutrophil present antigen on their surfac (t/f) false!! main dendrit cell and macrophag
are plant multicellular or unicelluar prokaryot or eukaryot multicellular eukaryot
organ in kingdom planta are aerob , mean they use the mitochondria and util oxygen to metabol glucos
are organ in kingdom planta anaerob or aerob aerob
organ in kingdom planta use [...] as their primari organ metabolit for aerob metabol organ in kingdom planta use glucos as their primari organ metabolit for aerob metabol but there are some plant that can use amino acid for metabol
organ in kingdom planta are [...] , becaus they can make glucos from co 2 and h 2 o ( [...] sources) organ in kingdom planta are photosynthet autotroph , becaus they can make glucos from co 2 and h 2 o ( inorgan sources)
kindom planta make their own [...] kindom planta make their own glucos
all cell of the organ in kingdom planta are surround by a cell wall made up of the protein/carbohydr complex, [...] . this is differ to the cell wall surround fungi , made up of chitin all cell of the organ in kingdom planta are surround by a cell wall made up of the protein/carbohydr complex, cellulos . this is differ to the cell wall surround fungi , made up of chitin
all cell of the organ in kingdom planta are surround by a cell wall made up of the protein/carbohydr complex, cellulose. this is differ to the cell wall surround fungi , made up of [...] all cell of the organ in kingdom planta are surround by a cell wall made up of the protein/carbohydr complex, cellulose. this is differ to the cell wall surround fungi , made up of chitin
plant cell wall are like chain link fence... they are [...] but [...] plant cell wall are like chain link fence... they are ridgid but pourous
there are [...] and terrestri plants... some spend in or under water (fresh/salt), but most are on the surfac of planet there are aquat and terrestri plants... some spend in or under water (fresh/salt), but most are on the surfac of planet
there are aquat and [...] plants... some spend in or under water (fresh/salt), but most are on the surfac of planet there are aquat and terrestri plants... some spend in or under water (fresh/salt), but most are on the surfac of planet
all plant are [...] , mean onc they germin and becom multicellular, they don't move around all plant are sedentari , mean onc they germin and becom multicellular, they don't move around
all plant are sedentary, mean onc they germin and becom multicellular, they [...] all plant are sedentary, mean onc they germin and becom multicellular, they don't move around
in a typic plant cell​ : [...] dna in nucleus​ [...] dna in mitochondrion​ [...] dna in chloroplast in a typic plant cell​ : rod-shap dna in nucleus​ circular dna in mitochondrion​ circular dna in chloroplast
in a typic plant cell​ : rod-shap dna in [...] circular dna in [...] ​ circular dna in [...] in a typic plant cell​ : rod-shap dna in nucleus​ circular dna in mitochondrion ​ circular dna in chloroplast
the plant cell label and give function label and give function the plant cell label and give function
the plant cell label and give function label and give function the plant cell label and give function
the plant cell label and give function label and give function the plant cell label and give function
the plant cell label and give function label and give function the plant cell label and give function
the plant cell label and give function label and give function the plant cell label and give function
the plant cell label and give function label and give function the plant cell label and give function
the plant cell label and give function label and give function the plant cell label and give function
the plant cell label and give function label and give function the plant cell label and give function
the plant cell label and give function label and give function the plant cell label and give function
the plant cell label and give function label and give function the plant cell label and give function
the plant cell label and give function label and give function the plant cell label and give function
the plant cell label and give function label and give function the plant cell label and give function
the plant cell label and give function label and give function the plant cell label and give function
in a typic plant cell: the plasma membran (below the cell wall) is a [...] protein complex that has the standard asymetr distribut of phospholipids: phosphotidyl cholin predomin is on the extracellular side. phosphotidyl inositol and phosphotidyl serin are on the cytoplasm side. in a typic plant cell: the plasma membran (below the cell wall) is a phospholipid bilay protein complex that has the standard asymetr distribut of phospholipids: phosphotidyl cholin predomin is on the extracellular side. phosphotidyl inositol and phosphotidyl serin are on the cytoplasm side.
in a typic plant cell: the plasma membran (below the cell wall) is a phospholipid bilay protein complex that has the standard [...] distribut of phospholipids: phosphotidyl [...] predomin is on the extracellular side. phosphotidyl [...] and phosphotidyl [...] are on the cytoplasm side. in a typic plant cell: the plasma membran (below the cell wall) is a phospholipid bilay protein complex that has the standard asymetr distribut of phospholipids: phosphotidyl cholin predomin is on the extracellular side. phosphotidyl inositol and phosphotidyl serin are on the cytoplasm side.
in a typic plant cell: the [...] is compos main of water and similar to the cytoplam of mani other life s. the [...] pathway is in the [...] , to begin per aerob metabolism. in a typic plant cell: the cytoplasm is compos main of water and similar to the cytoplam of mani other life s. the glycolysi pathway is in the cytoplasm , to begin per aerob metabolism.
in a typic plant cell: the [...] are scatter throughout the cytoplasm to translat mrna and/or make polypeptid in a typic plant cell: the ribosom are scatter throughout the cytoplasm to translat mrna and/or make polypeptid
in a typic plant cell: the ribosom are scatter throughout the cytoplasm to [...] and/or [...] in a typic plant cell: the ribosom are scatter throughout the cytoplasm to translat mrna and/or make polypeptid
what size are the ribosom in the cytoplasm larg
plant cell with larg type of ribosom is the  of ... make it a cousin to animals. endosymbiosi
in a typic plant cell: the [...] (below the cell wall) is a phospholipid bilay protein complex that has the standard asymetr distribut of phospholipids: phosphotidyl cholin predomin is on the extracellular side. phosphotidyl inositol and phosphotidyl serin are on the cytoplasm side. in a typic plant cell: the plasma membran (below the cell wall) is a phospholipid bilay protein complex that has the standard asymetr distribut of phospholipids: phosphotidyl cholin predomin is on the extracellular side. phosphotidyl inositol and phosphotidyl serin are on the cytoplasm side.
in a typic plant cell: the cell wall is [...] . it is not a barrier to the movement of [...] , all [...] , and some [...] . it is a barrier to [...] to physic imped (i.e. [...] ). in a typic plant cell: the cell wall is ridgid but porous . it is not a barrier to the movement of gase , all small organ molecul , and some macromolecul . it is a barrier to larg organ to physic imped (i.e. bacteria ).
in a typic plant cell: the [...] is ridgid but porous . it is not a barrier to the movement of gase , all small organ molecul , and some macromolecul . it is a barrier to larg organ to physic imped (i.e. bacteria ). in a typic plant cell: the cell wall is ridgid but porous . it is not a barrier to the movement of gase , all small organ molecul , and some macromolecul . it is a barrier to larg organ to physic imped (i.e. bacteria ).
in a typic plant cell: the [...] has doubl membran complex and contain the genet material/chromosom . in a typic plant cell: the nucleus has doubl membran complex and contain the genet material/chromosom .
in a typic plant cell: the nucleus has [...] and contain the [...] . in a typic plant cell: the nucleus has doubl membran complex and contain the genet material/chromosom .
in a typic plant cell: in the nuclu is the nucleolus, which is a site condens with [...] in a typic plant cell: in the nuclu is the nucleolus, which is a site condens with chromosom transcrib rrna
in a typic plant cell: in the nuclu is the [...] , which is a site condens with chromosom transcrib rrna in a typic plant cell: in the nuclu is the nucleolus , which is a site condens with chromosom transcrib rrna
the nucleolus is the site of [...] , where [...] the nucleolus is the site of ribosom rna product , where ribosom start build
in a typic plant cell: continu with the nuclear envelop is the [...] (rough is closer) and can be divid into 2: rough - has ribosom and is the site of protein synthesi smooth - lack ribosom and is the site of lipid synthesi in a typic plant cell: continu with the nuclear envelop is the endoplasm reticulum (rough is closer) and can be divid into 2: rough - has ribosom and is the site of protein synthesi smooth - lack ribosom and is the site of lipid synthesi
in a typic plant cell: continu with the nuclear envelop is the endoplasm reticulum ( [...] is closer) and can be divid into 2: [...] - has ribosom and is the site of protein synthesi [...] - lack ribosom and is the site of lipid synthesi in a typic plant cell: continu with the nuclear envelop is the endoplasm reticulum ( rough is closer) and can be divid into 2: rough - has ribosom and is the site of protein synthesi smooth - lack ribosom and is the site of lipid synthesi
in a typic plant cell: continu with the nuclear envelop is the endoplasm reticulum (rough is closer) and can be divid into 2: rough - has [...] and is the site of [...] smooth - lack [...] and is the site of [...] in a typic plant cell: continu with the nuclear envelop is the endoplasm reticulum (rough is closer) and can be divid into 2: rough - has ribosom and is the site of protein synthesi smooth - lack ribosom and is the site of lipid synthesi
in a typic plant cell: there are mani [...] that the endoplasm reticulum communic with. it is a " packag and refin " site for build protein and transport membran to the plasma membran . in a typic plant cell: there are mani golgi that the endoplasm reticulum communic with. it is a " packag and refin " site for build protein and transport membran to the plasma membran .
in a typic plant cell: there are mani golgi that the endoplasm reticulum communic with. it is a " [...] " site for build [...] and transport [...] . in a typic plant cell: there are mani golgi that the endoplasm reticulum communic with. it is a " packag and refin " site for build protein and transport membran to the plasma membran .
in a typic plant cell: there are [...] that got there through endosymbiosi . experi concern endosymbiosi lead to one lineag lead to anim and the other to plants} }. the function of this organell is to aid the cell in {{c2 which start in glycolisi and finish here . in a typic plant cell: there are mitochondria that got there through endosymbiosi . experi concern endosymbiosi lead to one lineag lead to anim and the other to plants} }. the function of this organell is to aid the cell in {{c2 which start in glycolisi and finish here .
in a typic plant cell: there are mitochondria that got there through endosymbiosi . experi concern endosymbiosi lead to one [...] and the other [aerob metabolism] which start in glycolisi and finish here . in a typic plant cell: there are mitochondria that got there through endosymbiosi . experi concern endosymbiosi lead to one lineag lead to anim and the other to plants} }. the function of this organell is to aid the cell in {{c2 which start in glycolisi and finish here .
in a typic plant cell: the [...] is most uniqu to plant (some single-cel prokaryot in kingdom protista has this). this is the site of photosynthesis. in a typic plant cell: the chloroplast is most uniqu to plant (some single-cel prokaryot in kingdom protista has this). this is the site of photosynthesis.
in a typic plant cell: the chloroplast is most uniqu to plant (some single-cel prokaryot in kingdom [...] has this). this is the site of [...] in a typic plant cell: the chloroplast is most uniqu to plant (some single-cel prokaryot in kingdom protista has this). this is the site of photosynthesis.
photosynthesi (process and balanc chemic equation) the process where light energi is convert into chemic energy. in which carbon dioxid and water process to becom glucos co 2 + 6h 2 o ------ c 6 h 12 o 6 + 6o 2 sunlight energi
the process where light energi is convert into chemic energy. in which carbon dioxid and water process to becom glucos co 2 + 6h 2 o ------ c 6 h 12 o 6 + 6o 2 sunlight energi photosynthesi (process and balanc chemic equation)
becaus photosynthesi is done in the chloroplast , [...] is also releas from here. becaus photosynthesi is done in the chloroplast , oxygen is also releas from here.
whi would a plant cell need a lysosom when there realli no need for the intak of macromolecul for intracellular digest the mitochondria and chloroplast will tend to break down (will be replaced). when they do, they need to be complet broken down. so, the lysosom take non-funct organell to break them down into their build s. this process is call autophagi .
autophagi the process that the lysosom pers, in which it take non-funct organell to break them down into their build  .
in a typic plant cell: the [...] take up a larg space in the plant cell. it is full of water and is a dump site for wast material. in a typic plant cell: the vacoul take up a larg space in the plant cell. it is full of water and is a dump site for wast material.
in a typic plant cell: the vacoul take up a larg space in the plant cell. it is full of [...] and is a [...] for [...] in a typic plant cell: the vacoul take up a larg space in the plant cell. it is full of water and is a dump site for wast material.
organell uniqu to plant cells... cell wall made of cellulose. vacuol chloroplast (some protist have this)
becaus of the vacuol 's size (due to how much water is int it), it will exert [...] onto the cytoplasm, which exert pressur on [...] , which is push onto the [...] . this is call " [...] ". it is what give the plant cell it puffed-out shape becaus of the vacuol 's size (due to how much water is int it), it will exert pressur onto the cytoplasm, which exert pressur on plasma membran , which is push onto the cell wall . this is call " turgor pressur ". it is what give the plant cell it puffed-out shape
becaus of the vacuol 's size (due to how much water is int it), it will exert pressur onto the cytoplasm, which exert pressur on plasma membrane, which is push onto the cell wall. this is call " turgor pressur ". it is what give the plant cell it ' [...] becaus of the vacuol 's size (due to how much water is int it), it will exert pressur onto the cytoplasm, which exert pressur on plasma membrane, which is push onto the cell wall. this is call " turgor pressur ". it is what give the plant cell it ' puffed-out shape
hypoton ( turgid ) solut are ideal for plants, but will make an anim cell [...] due to [...] on it cell membrane. hypoton ( turgid ) solut are ideal for plants, but will make an anim cell burst due to osmot pressur on it cell membrane.
in a typic plant cell: in the cytoplasm, [...] are made. in a typic plant cell: in the cytoplasm, larg ribosom are made.
in a typic plant cell: in the [...] , larg ribosom are made. in a typic plant cell: in the cytoplasm , larg ribosom are made.
in a typic plant cell: in the stroma (of the chloroplast), [...] are made in a typic plant cell: in the stroma (of the chloroplast), small ribosom are made
in a typic plant cell: in the [...] , small ribosom are made in a typic plant cell: in the stroma (of the chloroplast) , small ribosom are made
in a typic plant cell: in the matrix of the mitochondrion , [...] are made (thank to circular dna) in a typic plant cell: in the matrix of the mitochondrion , small ribosom are made (thank to circular dna)
in a typic plant cell: in the [...] , small ribosom are made (thank to circular dna) in a typic plant cell: in the matrix of the mitochondrion , small ribosom are made (thank to circular dna)
orient of plant cell : [...] in between the cell walls, there is fluid (extracelluar space). the cell wall are connect to each other through complex that act like " rivet ", so the whole network come together. this is what give plant it  ; through the adjec rivet that allow fluid to move around... orient of plant cell : connect to each other via the cell wall in between the cell walls, there is fluid (extracelluar space). the cell wall are connect to each other through complex that act like " rivet ", so the whole network come together. this is what give plant it  ; through the adjec rivet that allow fluid to move around...
orient of plant cell : connect to each other via the cell wall in between the cell walls, there is [...] ( [...] ). the cell wall are connect to each other through complex that act like " rivet ", so the whole network come together. this is what give plant it  ; through the adjec rivet that allow fluid to move around... orient of plant cell : connect to each other via the cell wall in between the cell walls, there is fluid ( extracelluar space ). the cell wall are connect to each other through complex that act like " rivet ", so the whole network come together. this is what give plant it  ; through the adjec rivet that allow fluid to move around...
orient of plant cell : connect to each other via the cell wall in between the cell walls, there is fluid (extracelluar space). the cell wall are connect to each other through [...] that act like " [...] ", so the whole network come together. this is what give plant it  ; through the [...] that allow fluid to move around... orient of plant cell : connect to each other via the cell wall in between the cell walls, there is fluid (extracelluar space). the cell wall are connect to each other through complex that act like " rivet ", so the whole network come together. this is what give plant it  ; through the adjec rivet that allow fluid to move around...
physiolog challeng for plants: in order to per photosynthesi plant need access to (3): – [...] : need to live in aquat zone where this penetr and on land they need to be expos to for some amount of time. – [...] : for terrestri organism, need to obtain this in the atmospher or the soil. they can't move directly, so need network to branch out ( roots) – [...] : not much of a problem, plenti in ocean and atmosphere. physiolog challeng for plants: in order to per photosynthesi plant need access to (3): – light : need to live in aquat zone where this penetr and on land they need to be expos to for some amount of time. – h 2 o : for terrestri organism, need to obtain this in the atmospher or the soil. they can't move directly, so need network to branch out ( roots) – co 2 : not much of a problem, plenti in ocean and atmosphere.
physiolog challeng for plants: in order to per photosynthesi plant need access to (3): – light: [...] – h 2 o: for terrestri organism, need to obtain this in the atmospher or the soil. they can't move directly, so need network to branch out ( roots) – co 2 : not much of a problem, plenti in ocean and atmosphere. physiolog challeng for plants: in order to per photosynthesi plant need access to (3): – light: need to live in aquat zone where this penetr and on land they need to be expos to for some amount of time. – h 2 o: for terrestri organism, need to obtain this in the atmospher or the soil. they can't move directly, so need network to branch out ( roots) – co 2 : not much of a problem, plenti in ocean and atmosphere.
physiolog challeng for plants: in order to per photosynthesi plant need access to (3): – light: need to live in aquat zone where this penetr and on land they need to be expos to for some amount of time. – h 2 o: [...] – co 2 : not much of a problem, plenti in ocean and atmosphere. physiolog challeng for plants: in order to per photosynthesi plant need access to (3): – light: need to live in aquat zone where this penetr and on land they need to be expos to for some amount of time. – h 2 o: for terrestri organism, need to obtain this in the atmospher or the soil. they can't move directly, so need network to branch out ( roots) – co 2 : not much of a problem, plenti in ocean and atmosphere.
physiolog challeng for plants: in order to per photosynthesi plant need access to (3): – light: need to live in aquat zone where this penetr and on land they need to be expos to for some amount of time. – h 2 o: for terrestri organism, need to obtain this in the atmospher or the soil. they can't move directly, so need network to branch out ( roots) – co 2 : [...] physiolog challeng for plants: in order to per photosynthesi plant need access to (3): – light: need to live in aquat zone where this penetr and on land they need to be expos to for some amount of time. – h 2 o: for terrestri organism, need to obtain this in the atmospher or the soil. they can't move directly, so need network to branch out ( roots) – co 2 : not much of a problem, plenti in ocean and atmosphere.
physiolog challeng for plants: in order to per aerob metabol plant need access to: – [...] - dure photosynthesi they actual releas this to the cytoplasm for glycolisis, plenti in the water and atmosphere. physiolog challeng for plants: in order to per aerob metabol plant need access to: – oxygen - dure photosynthesi they actual releas this to the cytoplasm for glycolisis, plenti in the water and atmosphere.
physiolog challeng for plants: in order to per aerob metabol plant need access to: – oxygen - dure photosynthesi they actual [...] , plenti in the water and atmosphere. physiolog challeng for plants: in order to per aerob metabol plant need access to: – oxygen - dure photosynthesi they actual releas this to the cytoplasm for glycolisi , plenti in the water and atmosphere.
physiolog challeng for plants: plant should grow [...] to be abl to catch light when overshadowed... physiolog challeng for plants: plant should grow vertic to be abl to catch light when overshadowed...
physiolog challeng for plants: in order for plant to grow vertic they need: – [...] : to "stand" up – mechan for effici move fluid to all cell : otherwis cell up top will die without this "plumbing" system physiolog challeng for plants: in order for plant to grow vertic they need: – intern support network : to "stand" up – mechan for effici move fluid to all cell : otherwis cell up top will die without this "plumbing" system
physiolog challeng for plants: in order for plant to grow vertic they need: – intern support network: to "stand" up – [...] : otherwis cell up top will die without this "plumbing" system physiolog challeng for plants: in order for plant to grow vertic they need: – intern support network: to "stand" up – mechan for effici move fluid to all cell : otherwis cell up top will die without this "plumbing" system
physiolog challeng for plants: in order for plant to live in a terrestri environ they need a mechan to [...] aka [...] physiolog challeng for plants: in order for plant to live in a terrestri environ they need a mechan to prevent desicc aka dri out; lose fluid from cytoplasm to the environ
physiolog challeng for plants: in order for plant to reproduc they must be abl to "move" but they are sedentari ... so they must find a way to ensur that there is [...] physiolog challeng for plants: in order for plant to reproduc they must be abl to "move" but they are sedentari ... so they must find a way to ensur that there is anoth generat in the gene pool
plant reproduct is also call [...] plant reproduct is also call altern of generat
altern of generations: the key to grasp this process is the assumpt that dure one generat of the plant organ there is a multicellular [...] organ call the " [...] " in anoth stage there can be a multicellular [...] organ call the " [...] ". altern of generations: the key to grasp this process is the assumpt that dure one generat of the plant organ there is a multicellular diploid organ call the " sporophyt " in anoth stage there can be a multicellular haploid organ call the " gametophyt ".
in the ideal altern of generations, the sporophyt and the gametophyt are essenti [...] and altern between [...] in the ideal altern of generations, the sporophyt and the gametophyt are essenti equal in mass and altern between 1n and 2n
the process of altern of generat begin with fertil . here, [...] come togeth to creat a [...] the process of altern of generat begin with fertil . here, 1n gamet come togeth to creat a 2n zygot
in the process of altern of generations: a zygot is a singl cell, which is the fusion of the [...] . it has 2 set of [...] in the process of altern of generations: a zygot is a singl cell, which is the fusion of the nucleus of ovum and that from a sperm . it has 2 set of homolog chromosomes.
the 2nd "stage" of altern of generations: the zygot undergo [...] to becom [...] , and eventu a [...] the 2nd "stage" of altern of generations: the zygot undergo mitosi to becom multicellular , and eventu a 2n sporophyte.
(3rd "stage") dure the altern of generations: on the sporophyt there are [...] that undergo [...] to make [...] . (3rd "stage") dure the altern of generations: on the sporophyt there are special cell that undergo meiosi to make 1n spore .
first half of the altern of generat involv a precursor [...] per two stage of cell divis to produc [...] . first half of the altern of generat involv a precursor 2n cell (zygotes) per two stage of cell divis to produc four 1n spore .
in the 4th "stage" of altern of generations: the precursor cell that the [...] , which is spread by [...] . onc it has settl on the ground, it begin to divid by [...] to yield a whose cell are [...] in the 4th "stage" of altern of generations: the precursor cell that the 1n spore , which is spread by water or wind . onc it has settl on the ground, it begin to divid by mitosi to yield a whose cell are 1n or haploid
in the final "stages" of altern of generations: at some point, special cell on the [...] undergo [...] and uniqu [...] to becom either an [...] which are 1n gametes... in the final "stages" of altern of generations: at some point, special cell on the gametophyt undergo mitosi and uniqu development stage to becom either an egg or a sperm which are 1n gametes...
in the final "stages" of altern of generations: at some point, special cell on the gametophyt undergo mitosi and uniqu development stage to becom either an egg or a sperm which are [...] ... in the final "stages" of altern of generations: at some point, special cell on the gametophyt undergo mitosi and uniqu development stage to becom either an egg or a sperm which are 1n gamet ...
altern of generat is intend to produc [...] that will becom gametophyt to make sperm and ovum. altern of generat is intend to produc greater number of spore that will becom gametophyt to make sperm and ovum.
alga are [...] that per [...] but do [...] to the plant kingdom alga are single-cel eukaryot that per phosynthesi but do not belong to the plant kingdom
  
  
first “true” plant are ​ [...] aka the [...] . exampl are [...] ​ first “true” plant are ​ non-vascular aka the bryophyt . exampl are moss ​ non-vascular - no structur so flat
[...] plants​ first appear about 200 million year ago. these type of plant branch off to: seedless like fern and seed plant that branch off to gymnosperm and angiosperm . vascular plants​ first appear about 200 million year ago. these type of plant branch off to: seedless like fern and seed plant that branch off to gymnosperm and angiosperm .
vascular plants​ first appear about 200 million year ago. these type of plant branch off to: [...] like fern and [...] that branch off to gymnosperm and angiosperm . vascular plants​ first appear about 200 million year ago. these type of plant branch off to: seedless like fern and seed plant that branch off to gymnosperm and angiosperm .
vascular plants​ first appear about 200 million year ago. these type of plant branch off to: seedless like [...] and seed plant that branch off to [...] and [...] . vascular plants​ first appear about 200 million year ago. these type of plant branch off to: seedless like fern and seed plant that branch off to gymnosperm and angiosperm .
fern are [...] plant but do not produc [...] fern are vascular plant but do not produc true seeds.
gymnosperm are [...] and [...] (" [...] ") gymnosperm are vascular and seed plant (" nake seed ")
angiosperm are [...] plant with [...] . exampl are [...] . angiosperm are vascular plant with cover seed . exampl are flower plant .
a featur of bryophyt (aka [...] ) is that they are [...] in size becaus they lack the [...] found in other organ in the kingdom planta for [...] growth . the hornwort grow to be about [...] and moss although can cover a larg area don't grow as much. if mose did, the bottom layer of cell won't get food and so that layer dies. a featur of bryophyt (aka non-vascular plant ) is that they are small in size becaus they lack the intern support structur found in other organ in the kingdom planta for vertic growth . the hornwort grow to be about 1" tall and moss although can cover a larg area don't grow as much. if mose did, the bottom layer of cell won't get food and so that layer dies.
a featur of [...] (aka non-vascular plant ) is that they are small in size becaus they lack the intern support structur found in other organ in the kingdom planta for vertic growth . the hornwort grow to be about 1" tall and moss although can cover a larg area don't grow as much. if mose did, the bottom layer of cell won't get food and so that layer dies. a featur of bryophyt (aka non-vascular plant ) is that they are small in size becaus they lack the intern support structur found in other organ in the kingdom planta for vertic growth . the hornwort grow to be about 1" tall and moss although can cover a larg area don't grow as much. if mose did, the bottom layer of cell won't get food and so that layer dies.
in bryophyt , water and gase enter and leav cell by [...] ... in the case of water the appropri term is [...] in bryophyt , water and gase enter and leav cell by diffus ... in the case of water the appropri term is osmosi
in [...] , water and gase enter and leav cell by diffusion... in the case of water the appropri term is osmosi in bryophyt , water and gase enter and leav cell by diffusion... in the case of water the appropri term is osmosi
  
communic between bryophyt cell is done by [...] communic between bryophyt cell is done by diffus
communic between [...] cell is done by diffus communic between bryophyt cell is done by diffus
  
surfac of the bryophyt is not resist to [...] ; therefor bryophyt most live in [...] environments. surfac of the bryophyt is not resist to water loss ; therefor bryophyt most live in moist environments.
surfac of the [...] is not resist to water loss ; therefor bryophyt most live in moist environments. surfac of the bryophyt is not resist to water loss ; therefor bryophyt most live in moist environments.
you won't be abl to find bryophyt in [...] ... possibl near [...] . this limit where they can live in the terretri environ you won't be abl to find bryophyt in dri environ ... possibl near stream and moist areas. . this limit where they can live in the terretri environ
when did bryophyt (aka nonvascular plants) first appear what did the world look like 400 million year ago. land mass did not look like those today. most around the equat and south hemispher where humid was high.
the altern of generat for bryophyt start with a multicellular bryophyt (moss or hornwort) that are [...] . there are 2 special cell type in these: – [...] which is 1n and develop a gamet that is the egg – [...] which is 1n and develop a gamet that is the sperm when sperm transfer to the egg when water transport it, it becom a [...] then [...] . the altern of generat for bryophyt start with a multicellular bryophyt (moss or hornwort) that are 1n gametophyt . there are 2 special cell type in these: – archegonium which is 1n and develop a gamet that is the egg – antheridium which is 1n and develop a gamet that is the sperm when sperm transfer to the egg when water transport it, it becom a 1n zygot then fertil begin .
the altern of generat for bryophyt start with a multicellular bryophyt (moss or hornwort) that are 1n gametophyt . there are 2 special cell type in these: – archegonium which is [...] and develop a [...] – antheridium which is [...] and develop a [...] when sperm transfer to the egg when water transport it, it becom a 1n zygot then fertil begin . the altern of generat for bryophyt start with a multicellular bryophyt (moss or hornwort) that are 1n gametophyt . there are 2 special cell type in these: – archegonium which is 1n and develop a gamet that is the egg – antheridium which is 1n and develop a gamet that is the sperm when sperm transfer to the egg when water transport it, it becom a 1n zygot then fertil begin .
the gametophyt of bryphyt are classifi as [...] becaus they produc both the male and femal gamet the gametophyt of bryphyt are classifi as hermaphodyt becaus they produc both the male and femal gamet
the gametophyt of bryphyt are classifi as hermaphodyt becaus they produc [...] the gametophyt of bryphyt are classifi as hermaphodyt becaus they produc both the male and femal gamet
in order for the sperm of bryphyt to move to the egg, they requir a [...] to becom a zygot for fertil in order for the sperm of bryphyt to move to the egg, they requir a water environ to swim over to becom a zygot for fertil
  
bryophyt altern of generat (2nd "stage")​: onc a sperm nucleus has unit with the nucleus of the archegonium (egg) aka fertilization, a [...] that is is produced, develop in the archegonium. through the process of [...] , it'll divid to becom an [...] that is [...] bryophyt altern of generat (2nd "stage")​: onc a sperm nucleus has unit with the nucleus of the archegonium (egg) aka fertilization, a zygot that is is produced, develop in the archegonium. through the process of mitosi , it'll divid to becom an embryo that is 2n
bryophyt altern of generat (3rd "stage")​: the 2n embryo cell are divid through mitosi but the cell surround them are [...] . as the embryo grows, a [...] structur or the [...] will emerg from the archegonium of the [...] . this is multicellular and consist of cell that make up the stalk and chamber . bryophyt altern of generat (3rd "stage")​: the 2n embryo cell are divid through mitosi but the cell surround them are 1n . as the embryo grows, a 2n structur or the sporophyt will emerg from the archegonium of the gametophyt . this is multicellular and consist of cell that make up the stalk and chamber .
bryophyt altern of generat (3rd "stage")​: the 2n embryo cell are divid through mitosi but the cell surround them are 1n. as the embryo grows, a 2n structur or the sporophyt will emerg from the archegonium of the gametophyt . this is [...] and consist of cell that make up the [...] and [...] . bryophyt altern of generat (3rd "stage")​: the 2n embryo cell are divid through mitosi but the cell surround them are 1n. as the embryo grows, a 2n structur or the sporophyt will emerg from the archegonium of the gametophyt . this is multicellular and consist of cell that make up the stalk and chamber .
the [...] is multicellular and consist of cell that make up the stalk and chamber fill with cell . it is attach to and is nutrit depend on the gametophyte. the sporophyt is multicellular and consist of cell that make up the stalk and chamber fill with cell . it is attach to and is nutrit depend on the gametophyte.
the sporophyt is [...] and consist of cell that make up the [...] and [...] fill with cell . it is [...] to and is [...] on the gametophyte. the sporophyt is multicellular and consist of cell that make up the stalk and chamber fill with cell . it is attach to and is nutrit depend on the gametophyte.
in the moss life cycle, the [...] is big and the [...] is small. in the moss life cycle, the gametophyt is big and the sporophyt is small.
in the moss life cycle, the gametophyt is [...] and the sporophyt is [...] . in the moss life cycle, the gametophyt is big and the sporophyt is small .
the common ancestor of byrophyt and alga was a [...] , that branch off. the common ancestor of byrophyt and alga was a photosynthet eukaryot , that branch off.
bryophyt altern of generat (4th "stage")​: onc the 2n sporophyt receiv an [...] , in it chamber, precursor cell undergo [...] , the chamber [...] , and [...] are released. bryophyt altern of generat (4th "stage")​: onc the 2n sporophyt receiv an environment signal (i.e. moist) , in it chamber, precursor cell undergo meiosi , the chamber open , and 1n spore are released.
bryophyt altern of generat (4th "stage")​: onc the 2n sporophyt receiv an environment signal (i.e. moist) , in it chamber, [...] undergo meiosi , the chamber open , and 1n spore are released. bryophyt altern of generat (4th "stage")​: onc the 2n sporophyt receiv an environment signal (i.e. moist) , in it chamber, precursor cell undergo meiosi , the chamber open , and 1n spore are released.
bryophyt altern of generat (5th/final "stage")​: the 1n [...] spore produc in and releas from the chamber of the 2n sporophyt will get pick up by the [...] . onc it settl and if condit are right , it will begin undergo [...] , becom " [...] " spores. this process  into a multicellular [...] . it structur consist of the bud, protonema, and rhizoid. bryophyt altern of generat (5th/final "stage")​: the 1n ungermin spore produc in and releas from the chamber of the 2n sporophyt will get pick up by the wind or water . onc it settl and if condit are right , it will begin undergo mitosi , becom " germin " spores. this process  into a multicellular 1n gametophyt . it structur consist of the bud, protonema, and rhizoid.
bryophyt altern of generat (5th/final "stage")​: the 1n ungermin spore produc in and releas from the chamber of the 2n sporophyt will get pick up by the wind or water . onc it settl and if condit are right , it will begin undergo mitosis, becom " germin " spores. this process  into a multicellular 1n gametophyte. it structur consist of the [...] , [...] , and [...] . bryophyt altern of generat (5th/final "stage")​: the 1n ungermin spore produc in and releas from the chamber of the 2n sporophyt will get pick up by the wind or water . onc it settl and if condit are right , it will begin undergo mitosis, becom " germin " spores. this process  into a multicellular 1n gametophyte. it structur consist of the bud , protonema , and rhizoid .
the adult  of a moss is onli [...] or [...] the adult  of a moss is onli 1n or haploid
bryophyt are limit to where/how they can move on the surfac of earth... so what adapt must we consid for them to move from an aquat to a terrestri environ they must be resist to water lost... so come in the cuticl
cuticl (not in bryophytes... onli found in vascular plants) a waxi (heavy-duti lipid polymer) cover the surfac of the organism.
adapt for move from an aquat to a terrestri environment: ​ the cuticl will [...] the diffus of h 2 0 into or out of the plant​. however, the cuticl will also [...] the diffus of gase such as co 2 and o 2​ ​ there is a need for an [...] on the cuticl - solution: [...] ​ adapt for move from an aquat to a terrestri environment: ​ the cuticl will  the diffus of h 2 0 into or out of the plant​. however, the cuticl will also  the diffus of gase such as co 2 and o 2​ ​ there is a need for an open on the cuticl - solution: stomata ​
adapt for move from an aquat to a terrestri environment: ​ the cuticl will  the [...] of [...] into or out of the plant​. however, the cuticl will also  the [...] of [...] such as [...] ​ there is a need for an open on the cuticl - solution: stomata ​ adapt for move from an aquat to a terrestri environment: ​ the cuticl will  the diffus of h 2 0 into or out of the plant​. however, the cuticl will also  the diffus of gase such as co 2 and o 2​ ​ there is a need for an open on the cuticl - solution: stomata ​
small open for gas exchang and water movement​ found in the surfac of vascular plant cell stomata
stomata small open for gas exchang and water movement​ found in the surfac of vascular plant cell
h 2 o can move in or out of the stomata base on [...] in the plant interior​. [...] h 2 o can move in or out of the stomata base on water content in the plant interior​. higher concentr to lower concentr
co 2 is drawn in through the stomata for [...] . [...] co 2 is drawn in through the stomata for photosynthesis​ . high co 2 content to low co 2 content
o 2 tend to move [...] through the stomata as a  of [...] ​ o 2 tend to move out through the stomata as a  of photosynthesi ​
co 2 is [...] through the stomata for photosynthesis​. high co 2 content to low co 2 content co 2 is drawn in through the stomata for photosynthesis​. high co 2 content to low co 2 content
h 2 o can move [...] of the stomata base on water content in the plant interior​. higher concentr to lower concentr h 2 o can move in or out of the stomata base on water content in the plant interior​. higher concentr to lower concentr
diagram of a stomata what is the function of this what is the function of this diagram of a stomata what is the function of this
diagram of a stomata what is the function of this what is the function of this diagram of a stomata what is the function of this
diagram of a stomata what is the function of this what is the function of this diagram of a stomata what is the function of this
the guard cell found in the [...] is [...] , mean it can chang it shape to open and close the guard cell found in the stomata is dynam , mean it can chang it shape to open and close
the guard cell found in the stomata is dynamic, mean it can [...] the guard cell found in the stomata is dynamic, mean it can chang it shape to open and close
cross-sect of a vascular plant label and give function label and give function cross-sect of a vascular plant label and give function
cross-sect of a vascular plant label and give function label and give function cross-sect of a vascular plant label and give function
cross-sect of a vascular plant label and give function label and give function cross-sect of a vascular plant label and give function
cross-sect of a vascular plant label and give function label and give function cross-sect of a vascular plant label and give function
cross-sect of a vascular plant label and give function label and give function cross-sect of a vascular plant label and give function
adapt for move from an aquat to a terrestri environment: ​ if terrestri plant want better exposur the sun, the organ need to grow [...] . ​however, as they increas in size they will need a mechan more effici than [...] to [...] ​ ​ solution: [...] adapt for move from an aquat to a terrestri environment: ​ if terrestri plant want better exposur the sun, the organ need to grow vertically​ . ​however, as they increas in size they will need a mechan more effici than diffus between cell to transport water ​ ​ solution: xylem and phloem​
xylem seri of tubes/vessel within vascular plant that carri water and miner one-way onli
seri of tubes/vessel within vascular plant that carri water and miner one-way onli xylem
phloem a seri of tubes/vessel in vascular plant that carri water and glucos ( food produc at the leav to transport throughout cell ) and have a two-way flow
a seri of tubes/vessel in vascular plant that carri water and glucos ( food produc at the leav to transport throughout cell ) and have a two-way flow phloem
the xylem don't have [...] between the cells. their wall are [...] the xylem don't have end wall between the cells. their wall are stiffen with lignin
the phloem have [...] between the cells. the phloem have end wall with perfor between the cells.
xylem and phloem cell have [...] that allow the cell it [...] xylem and phloem cell have ridgid structur that allow the cell it structur to grow vertic
xylem and phloem are made up of [...] that are [...] to  a tubular vessel. xylem and phloem are made up of individu cell that are link head to tail to  a tubular vessel.
cross-sect of a vascular plant label the structur that allow vertic growth for vascular plant label the structur that allow vertic growth for vascular plant cross-sect of a vascular plant label the structur that allow vertic growth for vascular plant
cross-sect of a vascular plant label the structur that allow vertic growth for vascular plant label the structur that allow vertic growth for vascular plant cross-sect of a vascular plant label the structur that allow vertic growth for vascular plant
cross-sect of a vascular plant label the structur that allow vertic growth for vascular plant label the structur that allow vertic growth for vascular plant cross-sect of a vascular plant label the structur that allow vertic growth for vascular plant
water flow through the [...] and is drawn to cell [...] water flow through the xylem and is drawn to cell per photosynthesi (stem to leaves)
artist reconstruct of fossil show primit vascular plant: from around [...] ago it entir stem is [...] . resembl 21st centuri plant like [...] artist reconstruct of fossil show primit vascular plant: from around 300 million year ago it entir stem is photosynthet . resembl 21st centuri plant like hors tail
adapt for move from an aquat to a terrestri environment: ​ ​ must have strategi for [...] of gamet and spores​ ​ look at [...] – seedless vascular plants​ adapt for move from an aquat to a terrestri environment: ​ ​ must have strategi for dispers of gamet and spores​ ​ look at fern – seedless vascular plants​
adapt for move from an aquat to a terrestri environment: ​ ​ must have strategi for dispers of [...] ​ look at fern – [...] adapt for move from an aquat to a terrestri environment: ​ ​ must have strategi for dispers of gamet and spores​ ​ look at fern – seedless vascular plants​
fern (aka seedless vascular plants) first appear [...] year ago. the world had [...] (look like). the domin plant type were fern fern (aka seedless vascular plants) first appear 300 million year ago. the world had continent land mass (look like). the domin plant type were fern carbonifori forest = carbon bed for fuel
  carbonifori forest = carbon bed for fuel
fern life cycle: begin with a matur multicellular [...] . it has ' [...] ' structur whose undersid has brown spot , which are chamber call the [...] . insid the [...] are precursor cell that are undergo meiosi to make thousand of spore . these spore are spread out by the wind or just drop down at the base of the origin sporophyt . onc it settl down it'll undergo mitosi and germin . the germin spore becom a multicellular ' heart-shap ' structur which is the 1n gametophyt . the gametophyt cell make the archegonium (yield 1n egg) and antheridum (yield 1n sperm). the fertil of sperm to egg is still water depend . fertil produc a 2n embryo that emerg from the 1n gametophyt to becom anoth 2n sporophyt . fern life cycle: begin with a matur multicellular 2n sporophyt . it has ' leaf-lik ' structur whose undersid has brown spot , which are chamber call the sporangia . insid the sporangia are precursor cell that are undergo meiosi to make thousand of spore . these spore are spread out by the wind or just drop down at the base of the origin sporophyt . onc it settl down it'll undergo mitosi and germin . the germin spore becom a multicellular ' heart-shap ' structur which is the 1n gametophyt . the gametophyt cell make the archegonium (yield 1n egg) and antheridum (yield 1n sperm). the fertil of sperm to egg is still water depend . fertil produc a 2n embryo that emerg from the 1n gametophyt to becom anoth 2n sporophyt .
fern life cycle: begin with a matur multicellular 2n sporophyte. it has ' leaf-lik ' structur whose undersid has brown spot , which are chamber call the sporangia . insid the sporangia are [...] cell that are undergo [...] to make thousand of [...] . these [...] are spread out by the wind or just drop down at the base of the origin sporophyt . onc it settl down it'll undergo mitosi and germin . the germin spore becom a multicellular ' heart-shap ' structur which is the 1n gametophyt . the gametophyt cell make the archegonium (yield 1n egg) and antheridum (yield 1n sperm). the fertil of sperm to egg is still water depend . fertil produc a 2n embryo that emerg from the 1n gametophyt to becom anoth 2n sporophyt . fern life cycle: begin with a matur multicellular 2n sporophyte. it has ' leaf-lik ' structur whose undersid has brown spot , which are chamber call the sporangia . insid the sporangia are precursor cell that are undergo meiosi to make thousand of spore . these spore are spread out by the wind or just drop down at the base of the origin sporophyt . onc it settl down it'll undergo mitosi and germin . the germin spore becom a multicellular ' heart-shap ' structur which is the 1n gametophyt . the gametophyt cell make the archegonium (yield 1n egg) and antheridum (yield 1n sperm). the fertil of sperm to egg is still water depend . fertil produc a 2n embryo that emerg from the 1n gametophyt to becom anoth 2n sporophyt .
fern life cycle: begin with a matur multicellular 2n sporophyte. it has ' leaf-lik ' structur whose undersid has brown spot , which are chamber call the sporangia . insid the sporangia are precursor cell that are undergo meiosi to make thousand of spore . these spore are spread out by the [...] or just [...] . onc it settl down it'll undergo [...] and [...] . the [...] becom a multicellular ' heart-shap ' structur which is the 1n gametophyt . the gametophyt cell make the archegonium (yield 1n egg) and antheridum (yield 1n sperm). the fertil of sperm to egg is still water depend . fertil produc a 2n embryo that emerg from the 1n gametophyt to becom anoth 2n sporophyt . fern life cycle: begin with a matur multicellular 2n sporophyte. it has ' leaf-lik ' structur whose undersid has brown spot , which are chamber call the sporangia . insid the sporangia are precursor cell that are undergo meiosi to make thousand of spore . these spore are spread out by the wind or just drop down at the base of the origin sporophyt . onc it settl down it'll undergo mitosi and germin . the germin spore becom a multicellular ' heart-shap ' structur which is the 1n gametophyt . the gametophyt cell make the archegonium (yield 1n egg) and antheridum (yield 1n sperm). the fertil of sperm to egg is still water depend . fertil produc a 2n embryo that emerg from the 1n gametophyt to becom anoth 2n sporophyt .
fern life cycle: begin with a matur multicellular 2n sporophyte. it has ' leaf-lik ' structur whose undersid has brown spot , which are chamber call the sporangia . insid the sporangia are precursor cell that are undergo meiosi to make thousand of spore . these spore are spread out by the wind or just drop down at the base of the origin sporophyt . onc it settl down it'll undergo mitosi and germin . the germin spore becom a multicellular ' [...] ' structur which is the [...] . the [...] cell make the [...] (yield [...] ) and [...] (yield [...] ). the fertil of sperm to egg is still water depend . fertil produc a 2n embryo that emerg from the 1n gametophyt to becom anoth 2n sporophyt . fern life cycle: begin with a matur multicellular 2n sporophyte. it has ' leaf-lik ' structur whose undersid has brown spot , which are chamber call the sporangia . insid the sporangia are precursor cell that are undergo meiosi to make thousand of spore . these spore are spread out by the wind or just drop down at the base of the origin sporophyt . onc it settl down it'll undergo mitosi and germin . the germin spore becom a multicellular ' heart-shap ' structur which is the 1n gametophyt . the gametophyt cell make the archegonium (yield 1n egg ) and antheridum (yield 1n sperm ). the fertil of sperm to egg is still water depend . fertil produc a 2n embryo that emerg from the 1n gametophyt to becom anoth 2n sporophyt .
fern life cycle: begin with a matur multicellular 2n sporophyte. it has ' leaf-lik ' structur whose undersid has brown spot , which are chamber call the sporangia . insid the sporangia are precursor cell that are undergo meiosi to make thousand of spore . these spore are spread out by the wind or just drop down at the base of the origin sporophyt . onc it settl down it'll undergo mitosi and germin . the germin spore becom a multicellular ' heart-shap ' structur which is the 1n gametophyt . the gametophyt cell make the archegonium (yield 1n egg) and antheridum (yield 1n sperm). the [...] of [...] is still [...] depend . fertil produc a 2n embryo that emerg from the 1n gametophyt to becom anoth 2n sporophyt . fern life cycle: begin with a matur multicellular 2n sporophyte. it has ' leaf-lik ' structur whose undersid has brown spot , which are chamber call the sporangia . insid the sporangia are precursor cell that are undergo meiosi to make thousand of spore . these spore are spread out by the wind or just drop down at the base of the origin sporophyt . onc it settl down it'll undergo mitosi and germin . the germin spore becom a multicellular ' heart-shap ' structur which is the 1n gametophyt . the gametophyt cell make the archegonium (yield 1n egg) and antheridum (yield 1n sperm). the fertil of sperm to egg is still water depend . fertil produc a 2n embryo that emerg from the 1n gametophyt to becom anoth 2n sporophyt .
fern life cycle: begin with a matur multicellular 2n sporophyte. it has ' leaf-lik ' structur whose undersid has brown spot , which are chamber call the sporangia . insid the sporangia are precursor cell that are undergo meiosi to make thousand of spore . these spore are spread out by the wind or just drop down at the base of the origin sporophyt . onc it settl down it'll undergo mitosi and germin . the germin spore becom a multicellular ' heart-shap ' structur which is the 1n gametophyt . the gametophyt cell make the archegonium (yield 1n egg) and antheridum (yield 1n sperm). the fertil of sperm to egg is still water depend . fertil produc a [...] that [...] from the [...] to becom anoth [...] . fern life cycle: begin with a matur multicellular 2n sporophyte. it has ' leaf-lik ' structur whose undersid has brown spot , which are chamber call the sporangia . insid the sporangia are precursor cell that are undergo meiosi to make thousand of spore . these spore are spread out by the wind or just drop down at the base of the origin sporophyt . onc it settl down it'll undergo mitosi and germin . the germin spore becom a multicellular ' heart-shap ' structur which is the 1n gametophyt . the gametophyt cell make the archegonium (yield 1n egg) and antheridum (yield 1n sperm). the fertil of sperm to egg is still water depend . fertil produc a 2n embryo that emerg from the 1n gametophyt to becom anoth 2n sporophyt .
in ferns: the [...] is the domin multicellular life  in the fern altern of generations. the [...] is multicellular, but is much smaller than the [...] compar to bryophyt (whoe [...] were dominant. in ferns: the sporophyt is the domin multicellular life  in the fern altern of generations. the gametophyt is multicellular, but is much smaller than the sporophyt compar to bryophyt (whoe gametophyt were dominant.
  
  
in ferns: dispers of spore is via [...] or [...] in ferns: dispers of spore is via wind or water​
in ferns: dispers of gamet must occur in a [...] ( [...] on the surfac of the gametophyte) similar to bryophyt in ferns: dispers of gamet must occur in a water environ ( moistur on the surfac of the gametophyte) similar to bryophyt
filtrat that get forc through space in the endotheli cell of capillari bed lymph
as blood travel through capillari the concentr of solut in capillari (increas or decreases) increas (lymph diffus out)
osmot pressur (increas or decreases) as blood travel through capillari increas (less lymph)
hydrostat pressur is (greater or lower) in latter part of capillari lower
lymphat vessel dump their content back into blood circul (t/f) true.
the locat where lymph enter back into circul end of venous (vein) circulation. low pressur
lymph drain into (low or high) pressur portion of circulatori stystem lowww
lymph have ___ to prevent backward flow valv
lymph vessel has smooth muscl to help direct forward flow (t/f) true
lymph vessel pick up materi at the ___ capillari bed
lymph re-ent at the ____ vein subclavian
lymph vessel take advantag of ___ muscl to move the lymph around the bodi skelet
fluid in the lymph vessel are filter in the ____ befor enter back into the bloodstream lymph node
chylomicron enter the (bloodstream or lymphat system) lymphatic!!- too big to enter capillari
chylomicron are synthes in the epitheli cell in our ___ small intestin
the lymphat vessel of our small intestin are call ___ lacteal
chylomicron enter these lymphat vessel lacteal
molecul that cannot diffus direct into capillaries, enter ____ to then enter the bloodstream lymphat circul
lymphat vessel collect fluid forc out of the capillari due to the high pressur in the arteries, and bring it back to bloodstream (t/f) tttttttt
the lymph has more protein than blood (t/f) false!!!!
as blood travel through the capillari the hydrostat pressur (inc or dec) and the osmot pressur (inc or dec) decreases, increas
the measur of the tendenc of a solut to take water in by osmosi osmot pressur
how much lymph do we make per day 3 liters!! (20 come out of blood and 17 reenter through osmot pressure)
lymph has how much protein compar to blood 1/2 - 1/3
lymph has a greater ratio of smaller:larg protein than blood (t/f) true, higher ratio of small!
the wast product in our blood are filter by our kidney and remov as urin
smallest function unit of kidney nephron
two main job of kidney: filtrat (urine) and collect (reabsport of nutrietnts)
outsid portion of kidney renal cortex
intern part of kidney renal medulla
urin is first present in the renal calyx
renal calyc meet at the renal ___ pelvi
the renal artery, vein and uret all emerg from this location: hilum
affer arteriol lead to this (first) section of the nephron glomerulus
portion of the arteriol leav the glomerulus effer arteriol
glomerulus collect filtrat from blood and leak the filtrat into the bowman capsul
type of tubular cell emerg from bowman capsul that hug the arteriol of the bowman capsul podocyt
path from glomerulus to bowman capsul diffus through: endotheli cells- basal lamina- epitheli cell (tubular/podocytes)
increas in the diamet of the affer arteriol will (inc or dec) the filtrat rate increas
decreas the diamter of the effer arteriol will (inc or dec) filtrat rate increase!! can't leave!!! o no.
the nephron dip in and out of the renal medulla from the cortex (t/f) true!
these type of molecul are filter by the glomerulus ions, glucose, amino acids, small molecul
from bowman capsul the filtrat enter the proxim convolut tubul
after the proxim convolut tubule, the filtrat enter the ____ loop of henl
salt are pump out of the ascend loop of henl into the: renal medulla
what get reabsorb in the descend loop of henl water!
from the ascend loop of henl the filtrat enter the distal convolut tubul
the distal convolut tubul exit into the ____ onc all the reabsport has taken place and onli wast is left collect duct
the collect duct travel through the _____, which is super salti renal medulla
this hormon determin how porous the collect duct are as they pass through the medulla adh
if adh make the collect duct veri porous more water will (enter or exit) the collect duct into the medulla, make the urin more concentr exit. super conc urin
capillari surround convolut tubul that bring the reabsorb nutrient back into the bloodstream peritubular capillari
na/k pump are on the ____ side of cell basolater
sodium is transport into epitheli cell in the kidney through via (this protein) and (this kind of transport) sglt, secondari  transport
this portion of the nephron reabsorb 65% of the nutriet (salts, glucose, h2o) from the filtrat proxim convolut tubul
the descend limb of the loop of henl is imperm to ___ and ascend limb is imperm to ___ ions, water
the process govern the passiv reabsorpt of water in the descend limb of the loop of henl via  transport in the ascend limb countercurr multipl
part of nephron that control blood pressur juxtaglomerular apparatus
this wast compon is reabsorb by the medulla to drive water reabsorpt in the loop of henl through osmolar urea (urea recycl
pee micturit
path of urin start from collect duct collect ducts- renal callys - renal pelvi - uret - bladder- urethra
the uret have ___ that prevent backflow valv
this cell layer allow our bladder to expand transit epithelium
bladder lead to urethra
muslc below bladder that ensur bladder doesn't leak out urin intern urethr sphincter
femal have the _____ below the intern urethr sphicter, that then lead to outsid extern urethra sphincter
men have the ___ region after the intern urethra sphincter prosthet urethra
the three section of the male urethra (in order from bladder) prosthetic- membraneous- spongi (in penis)
the membran region of the urethra contain this skelet muslc in both men and women extern urethra sphincter
femal have onli the membran region of the urethra which make their urethra much shorter than men (t/f) trueee
femal have a greater chanc for urinari tract infect due to their smaller urethra (t/f) trueee
this hormon induc aquaporin channel to enter the membran of the collect duct cells, promot h20 reabsport adh
erythrocytes: rbcs
leukocytes: wbcs
raa stand for: renin angiotensin aldosteron system
these cell releas the renin hormon juxta glomerular cell
the three trigger of renin release: 1) low bp 2) sympathet 3) low na+ in distal tubul
endotheli cell throughout the bodi convert angiotensin i to angiotensin ii via this enzym angiotensin convert enzym (ace)
aldosteron act on kidney cell by increas ___ reabsport which lead to an increas in stroke volum na+
angiotensin ii work on these two glands: posterior pituitari and adren gland
angiotensin ii target 4 cell types: posterior pituitary, adren gland, kidney, smooth muscl
juxta glomerular cell are outsid the endotheli cell of the ____ of the kidney affter arteriol
renin is a protein (t/f) t tt
adh increas ___ reabsport wherea aldosteron increas ___ reabsport in the kidney h2o, na+
where the nephron is water permeabl ___ reabsorpt lead to water reabsport through osmosi na+
where the nephron is imperm to water ___ act to creat channel adh
angiotensin ii stimul the cell in the adren cortex to convert cholestorol into ___ aldosteron
high concentr of ____ stimul cholestorol to be convert into aldosteron and be enter into the bloodstream k+
the cell surround the collect duct are called: princip cell
aldosteron effect on the urin is an (inc or dec) of k+ and an (inc or dec) of na+ inc, dec
increas na+ in blood, increas ____ concentr in the blood h2o
increas water reabsorpt lead to increas ___ which lead to increas bp stroke volum
these cell of the collect duct system help remov acid from the blood by send hco3- into the blood to bond with an h+ alpha intercal cell
hco3- is convert into ___ in the blood when it bond with an h+ co2 and h2o
the h+ that is creat with hco3- from co2 in the princip cell is transport into the urin via primari and secondari  transport (t/f) trueee, (and there are even two type of primari  transport!!!)
aldosteron work to boost the transport of h+ out of the intercal cell via these two transport primari h+ &amp; secondari h+/na+
anoth name for adh vasopressin
adh is made in the ___ and secret by the ___ hypothalamus, posterior pituitari
varo (pressure) receptor collect in from this part of the cirulatori system arteri
volum receptor collect in from this part of the cirulatori system vein
the 4 trigger for adh release: 1)high osmolar (blood concentration/ high saltiness) 2) low blood volum 3) low blood pressur 4) angiotensin ii
adh two organ target to rais bloop presssure: smooth muscl (vaso-constriction), kidney (increas stroke volume)
as urin travel down collect ducts, osmolar (inc or dec) incc!!! more salti
adh stimul insert of ___ into the collect duct cell membranes, allow h2o to enter the bloodstream aquaporin
the abil of an extracellular solut to make water move into or out of a cell by osmosi tonic
on a basic level, aldosteron increas h2o in blood by increas na+ in blood
[...] cell around blood vessel are call endotheli cell epitheli cell around blood vessel are call endotheli cell
epitheli cell around blood vessel are call [...] cell epitheli cell around blood vessel are call endotheli cell
epitheli cell around [...] are call endotheli cell epitheli cell around blood vessel are call endotheli cell
enzym assist breakdown of food hydrolysi
path of food mouth- esophagus - stomach - small intestin - larg intestin (colon) - rectum - anus
the mouth convert food into a ___ bolus
scienci name for chew mastic
fanci name for tongu lingua
these muscl of the tongu shorten, widen, lengthen and narrow the tongu intrins muscl
these type of muscl of the tongu elevate, depress, protrud and contract extrins muscl
the [...] gland in the mouth releas main alpha amylas which break down carb the parotid and submandibular and sublingu gland in the mouth releas main alpha amylas which break down carb
the parotid and submandibular and sublingu gland in the mouth releas main [...] which break down carb the parotid and submandibular and sublingu gland in the mouth releas main alpha amylas which break down carb
the parotid and submandibular and sublingu gland in the mouth releas main alpha amylas which break down [...] the parotid and submandibular and sublingu gland in the mouth releas main alpha amylas which break down carb
[...] in the mouth releas lingual lipas which break down lipid (triglycerides) von ebner gland in the mouth releas lingual lipas which break down lipid (triglycerides)
von ebner gland in the mouth releas [...] which break down lipid (triglycerides) von ebner gland in the mouth releas lingual lipas which break down lipid (triglycerides)
von ebner gland in the mouth releas lingual lipas which break down [...] von ebner gland in the mouth releas lingual lipas which break down lipid (triglycerides)
the gland in our mouth can releas these two type of content: serous (enzyme) &amp; mucin
sugar can fuck up your teeth becaus they __________ can lower the ph below 7 (all those hydroxyl groups)
scienci name for lower jaw mandibl
scienci name for upper jaw maxila
start from center move left (or right), these are the name of our teeth central incisor, later incisor, canine, 2*premolar, 3*molar
3rd molar, aka wisdom teeth
gum gingiva
the 2 ____ are circular muscl that allow food to flow through our esophagus upper and lower esophog sphincter
in humans, the ____ muscl serv as the lower esophag sphincter diaphragm
wave like propuls of food peristalsi
three composit types( muscle) of esophagus (from top to bottom) skelet - skelet and smooth - smooth
stomach turn bolus into ___ chyme
first part of small intestin duodenum
these stomach cell releas hcl pariet cell
[...] in the stomach releas mucus so that hcl and pepsin don't destroy our stomach mucous cell in the stomach releas mucus so that hcl and pepsin don't destroy our stomach
mucous cell in the stomach releas mucus so that [...] don't destroy our stomach mucous cell in the stomach releas mucus so that hcl and pepsin don't destroy our stomach
three part of small intestin duodenum, jejunum, ileum
project on wall of duodenum villi
project on villi microvilli
villi and microvilli purpose: increas surfac area for digest
villi and mircrovilli in duodenum aka: brush border
[...] enzym involv in the breakdown of protein: peptidas brush border enzym involv in the breakdown of protein: peptidas
brush border enzym involv in the breakdown of protein: [...] brush border enzym involv in the breakdown of protein: peptidas
the protein-breakdown-enzym trypsinogen and chyrotrypsinogen come from the [...] to the brush border the protein-breakdown-enzym trypsinogen and chyrotrypsinogen come from the pancrea to the brush border
the [...] , releas amylas that break the [...] bond between sugars. it also releas [...] that break down triglycerides. it also releas [...] enzym trypsinogen and chymotripsinogen which are  in the [...] by enteropeptidas and convert into [...] the pancrea , releas amylas that break the glycosid bond between sugars. it also releas lipas that break down triglycerides. it also releas proteolyt enzym trypsinogen and chymotripsinogen which are  in the duodenum by enteropeptidas and convert into trypsin and chymotripsin
the pancreas, releas [...] that break the glycosid bond between [...] . it also releas lipas that break down [...] . it also releas proteolyt enzym [...] which are  in the duodenum by [...] and convert into trypsin and chymotripsin the pancreas, releas amylas that break the glycosid bond between sugar . it also releas lipas that break down triglycerid . it also releas proteolyt enzym trypsinogen and chymotripsinogen which are  in the duodenum by enteropeptidas and convert into trypsin and chymotripsin
  
  
brush border enzym [...] break down lactos brush border enzym lactas break down lactos
amino acid and nucleosid transport into our interosit by [...] amino acid and nucleosid transport into our interosit by primari  transport
cell line [...] are call interosit cell line small intestin are call interosit
cell line small intestin are call [...] cell line small intestin are call interosit
[...] are transport into our interosit by secondari  transport use a na+/gluc cotransporpt monosaccharid are transport into our interosit by secondari  transport use a na+/gluc cotransporpt
monosaccharid are transport into our interosit by [...] use a na+/gluc cotransporpt monosaccharid are transport into our interosit by secondari  transport use a na+/gluc cotransporpt
monosaccharid are transport into our interosit by secondari  transport use a [...] monosaccharid are transport into our interosit by secondari  transport use a na+/gluc cotransporpt
amino acid and [...] transport into our interosit by primari  transport amino acid and nucleosid transport into our interosit by primari  transport
[...] and nucleosid transport into our interosit by primari  transport amino acid and nucleosid transport into our interosit by primari  transport
[...] are transport into interosit via simpl diffus and are  into chylomicron which are absorb by lacteal fat are transport into interosit via simpl diffus and are  into chylomicron which are absorb by lacteal
fat are transport into interosit via [...] and are  into chylomicron which are absorb by lacteal fat are transport into interosit via simpl diffus and are  into chylomicron which are absorb by lacteal
fat are transport into interosit via simpl diffus and are  into [...] which are absorb by lacteal fat are transport into interosit via simpl diffus and are  into chylomicron which are absorb by lacteal
fat are transport into interosit via simpl diffus and are  into chylomicron which are absorb by [...] fat are transport into interosit via simpl diffus and are  into chylomicron which are absorb by lacteal
aa, monosaccharid and nucleosid all are shuttl from the interosit into the [...] while fat are shuttl to the lacteal in the lymphat system aa, monosaccharid and nucleosid all are shuttl from the interosit into the capillari while fat are shuttl to the lacteal in the lymphat system
aa, monosaccharid and nucleosid all are shuttl from the interosit into the capillari while fat are shuttl to the [...] aa, monosaccharid and nucleosid all are shuttl from the interosit into the capillari while fat are shuttl to the lacteal in the lymphat system
breakdown of nutriet catabol
buildup of larger macromolecul anabol
carb and fat are store by our liver as [...] , lipoprotein, triglycerid carb and fat are store by our liver as glycogen , lipoprotein, triglycerid
carb and fat are store by our liver as glycogen , [...] , triglycerid carb and fat are store by our liver as glycogen , lipoprotein , triglycerid
carb and fat are store by our liver as glycogen , lipoprotein, [...] carb and fat are store by our liver as glycogen , lipoprotein, triglycerid
liver four main function are: metabolism, storage, detoxification, bile product
[...] enzym in our liver are involv in detoxif will react with mani differ type of substanc cytochrom p450 enzym in our liver are involv in detoxif will react with mani differ type of substanc
cytochrom p450 enzym in our [...] are involv in detoxif will react with mani differ type of substanc cytochrom p450 enzym in our liver are involv in detoxif will react with mani differ type of substanc
the nutrient rich blood suppli from the intestin track to the liver is carri by the [...] the nutrient rich blood suppli from the intestin track to the liver is carri by the portal vein
the [...] carri oxygen rich blood to the liver the proper hepat arteri carri oxygen rich blood to the liver
the [...] carri nutrient and oxygen poor blood from the liver to the heart the hepat vein carri nutrient and oxygen poor blood from the liver to the heart
the hepat vein carri nutrient and oxygen [...] blood from the liver to the heart the hepat vein carri nutrient and oxygen poor blood from the liver to the heart
liver split up into unit call [...] that contain 6 unit of portal triad that surround hepatocytes, or liver cell liver split up into unit call hepat lobul that contain 6 unit of portal triad that surround hepatocytes, or liver cell
liver split up into unit call hepat lobul that contain 6 unit of portal triad that surround [...] , or liver cell liver split up into unit call hepat lobul that contain 6 unit of portal triad that surround hepatocyt , or liver cell
[...] come off portal vein to reach hepatocyt sinusoid come off portal vein to reach hepatocyt
central vein sit at middl of hepat lobule, which collect nutrient and oxygen poor blood into the [...] central vein sit at middl of hepat lobule, which collect nutrient and oxygen poor blood into the hepat vein
[...] sit at middl of hepat lobule, which collect nutrient and oxygen poor blood into the hepat vein central vein sit at middl of hepat lobule, which collect nutrient and oxygen poor blood into the hepat vein
bile salt help us [...] fat bile salt help us emulsify/organ fat
in the duodenum the bile salt emulsifi the fat, make it easier to absorb in the [...] in the duodenum the bile salt emulsifi the fat, make it easier to absorb in the ileum
in the [...] the bile salt emulsifi the fat, make it easier to absorb in the ileum in the duodenum the bile salt emulsifi the fat, make it easier to absorb in the ileum
first place bile hit the gi tract: duodenum
pancrea sit in the [...] (back of abdomen) pancrea sit in the retroperitoneum (back of abdomen)
exocrin pancrea releas [...] to neutral gastric acid/ hcl from stomach exocrin pancrea releas hco3 to neutral gastric acid/ hcl from stomach
exocrin pancrea releas hco3 to neutral [...] from stomach exocrin pancrea releas hco3 to neutral gastric acid/ hcl from stomach
endocrin pancrea has islet cell that sit on [...] endocrin pancrea has islet cell that sit on island
endocrin pancrea has [...] cell that sit on island endocrin pancrea has islet cell that sit on island
[...] islet cell releas glucagon which break down glycogen into glucos alpha islet cell releas glucagon which break down glycogen into glucos
alpha islet cell releas [...] which break down glycogen into glucos alpha islet cell releas glucagon which break down glycogen into glucos
alpha islet cell releas glucagon which break down [...] into glucos alpha islet cell releas glucagon which break down glycogen into glucos
alpha islet cell releas glucagon which break down glycogen into [...] alpha islet cell releas glucagon which break down glycogen into glucos
[...] islet cell releas insulin which caus glucos to be convert to glycogen for storag beta islet cell releas insulin which caus glucos to be convert to glycogen for storag
beta islet cell releas [...] which caus glucos to be convert to glycogen for storag beta islet cell releas insulin which caus glucos to be convert to glycogen for storag
beta islet cell releas insulin which caus [...] to be convert to glycogen for storag beta islet cell releas insulin which caus glucos to be convert to glycogen for storag
beta islet cell releas insulin which caus glucos to be convert to [...] for storag beta islet cell releas insulin which caus glucos to be convert to glycogen for storag
type [...] diabet miletus is due to a problem with insulin product type i diabet miletus is due to a problem with insulin product
type i diabet miletus is due to a problem with insulin [...] type i diabet miletus is due to a problem with insulin product
type [...] diabet miletus is a problem with insulin receptor type ii diabet miletus is a problem with insulin receptor
type ii diabet miletus is a problem with insulin [...] type ii diabet miletus is a problem with insulin receptor
[...] islet cell releas somatostatin whose job it is to stop other hormon delta islet cell releas somatostatin whose job it is to stop other hormon
delta islet cell releas [...] whose job it is to stop other hormon delta islet cell releas somatostatin whose job it is to stop other hormon
small intestin end in [...] valv small intestin end in ileocec valv
[...] end in ileocec valv small intestin end in ileocec valv
larg intestin is respons for absorb [...] larg intestin is respons for absorb water
too littl water be absorb by li  in diarrhea and too much lead to [...] too littl water be absorb by li  in diarrhea and too much lead to constip
too littl water be absorb by li  in [...] and too much lead to constip too littl water be absorb by li  in diarrhea and too much lead to constip
the disease, [...] , involv bacteria affect the li and can lead to death by dehydr the disease, cholera , involv bacteria affect the li and can lead to death by dehydr
[...] is rich sourc of microorganisms, which assist in digest li is rich sourc of microorganisms, which assist in digest
li is rich sourc of [...] , which assist in digest li is rich sourc of microorgan , which assist in digest
[...] hold on to stool rectum hold on to stool
anus is compos of two [...] , one made of smooth and one made of skelet muscl anus is compos of two sphincter , one made of smooth and one made of skelet muscl
[...] nervous system is the nervous system of the gi enter nervous system is the nervous system of the gi
[...] reflex push food in our colon further south when food enter the stomach gastrocol reflex push food in our colon further south when food enter the stomach
when food enter stomach, it releas [...] which caus secret of hcl by [...] , pepsinogen by [...] and increas stomach motility. pepsinogen is turn into  [...] by hcl and assist in the breakdown of [...] when food enter stomach, it releas gastrin hormon which caus secret of hcl by pariet cell , pepsinogen by chief cell and increas stomach motility. pepsinogen is turn into  pepsin by hcl and assist in the breakdown of protein
when food enter stomach, it releas gastrin hormon which caus secret of [...] by pariet cells, pepsinogen by chief cell and increas [...] . pepsinogen is turn into  pepsin by [...] and assist in the breakdown of protein when food enter stomach, it releas gastrin hormon which caus secret of hcl by pariet cells, pepsinogen by chief cell and increas stomach motil . pepsinogen is turn into  pepsin by hcl and assist in the breakdown of protein
when food enter stomach, it releas gastrin hormon which caus secret of hcl by pariet cells, [...] by chief cell and increas stomach motility. pepsinogen is turn into  pepsin by hcl and assist in the breakdown of protein when food enter stomach, it releas gastrin hormon which caus secret of hcl by pariet cells, pepsinogen by chief cell and increas stomach motility. pepsinogen is turn into  pepsin by hcl and assist in the breakdown of protein
  
when stomach acid reach ph 3 [...] secret is stop when stomach acid reach ph 3 gastrin secret is stop
when stomach acid reach ph [...] gastrin secret is stop when stomach acid reach ph 3 gastrin secret is stop
[...] in our chyme caus the duodenum to secret cck which contract the [...] , releas it [...] . it also stimul the [...] to releas lipase. the hcl in our chyme caus secretin to be releas which inhibit gastrin releas from the stomach and stimul releas of hco3 by fat in our chyme caus the duodenum to secret cck which contract the gall bladder , releas it bile . it also stimul the pancrea to releas lipase. the hcl in our chyme caus secretin to be releas which inhibit gastrin releas from the stomach and stimul releas of hco3 by
fat in our chyme caus the duodenum to secret [...] which contract the gall bladder, releas it bile. it also stimul the pancrea to releas [...] . the hcl in our chyme caus secretin to be releas which inhibit gastrin releas from the stomach and stimul releas of hco3 by fat in our chyme caus the duodenum to secret cck which contract the gall bladder, releas it bile. it also stimul the pancrea to releas lipas . the hcl in our chyme caus secretin to be releas which inhibit gastrin releas from the stomach and stimul releas of hco3 by
fat in our chyme caus the duodenum to secret cck which contract the gall bladder, releas it bile. it also stimul the pancrea to releas lipase. the [...] in our chyme caus secretin to be releas which inhibit gastrin releas from the stomach and stimul releas of hco3 by fat in our chyme caus the duodenum to secret cck which contract the gall bladder, releas it bile. it also stimul the pancrea to releas lipase. the hcl in our chyme caus secretin to be releas which inhibit gastrin releas from the stomach and stimul releas of hco3 by
fat in our chyme caus the duodenum to secret cck which contract the gall bladder, releas it bile. it also stimul the pancrea to releas lipase. the hcl in our chyme caus [...] to be releas which inhibit [...] releas from the [...] and stimul releas of [...] by fat in our chyme caus the duodenum to secret cck which contract the gall bladder, releas it bile. it also stimul the pancrea to releas lipase. the hcl in our chyme caus secretin to be releas which inhibit gastrin releas from the stomach and stimul releas of hco3 by
what is the signific of the evolut of stomata stomata are open on the surfac of plant that are not cover by cuticle. they provid a site for the movement of water into and out of the plant, and provid a site for gas exchange.
do sporophyt develop from zygot through mitosi or meiosi explain. mitosis. the sporophyt is deriv from the 2n zygote. the zygot is the  of the union of a sperm (n) and an ovum (n). the zygot divid by mitosi to develop into a multicellular 2n sporophyte.
whi wouldn't a scientist automat place a photosynthet organ into the same clade as land plant photosynthesi occur in mani other organisms. like alga
whi do nonvascular plant grow so close to the ground they lack the support structur (xylem and phloem) that allow vascular plant to grow vertically.
which of the follow is a characterist of a nonvascular plant select one: • xylem and phloem • complex root system • photosynthet structur • flower reproduct structur • thick, waxi cuticl photosynthet structur
moss have a thin cuticl that offer veri littl protect against dehydration. whi is this a benefici trait for the moss a thin cuticl allow moss to absorb moistur from their environment.
what life cycl phase domin the life of a nonvascular plant gametophyt
dure what phase of it life cycl doe a seedless vascular plant spend most of it life sporocyt
gymnosperm divers evolv in a geolog period mark by chang climat conditions. whi would anthropogen climat chang be a threat to gymnosperm now the chang to the environ be introduc by anthropogen factor are happen at such a rapid rate: much faster than environment chang that occur in past geolog time periods. if gymnosperm lack the adapt to adjust to these rapid changes, those organ may suffer loses.
which innov gave gymnosperm a select advantag over the nonvascular and seedless vascular plant dure the permian period (4) bark, seeds, needle-shap leaves, great reduc gametophyt stage
which structur of a pine is the immatur male gametophyt one prothalli cell, one generat cell, and two tube cells... not: cone, seed, pollen grain, or the tree
by what mechan is gymnosperm pollen usual carri from male pollen cone to the femal ovul cone that contain the egg wind
which trait has not contribut to the domin of angiosperm in mani ecosystem thick, desiccation-resist leav that persist year-round in temper habitat
what is the most common function of an angiosperm sepal they protect the petal and other organ dure flower development.
approxim when do scientist believ life origin on earth 4.2 billion year ago
which piec of evid support the idea that life origin in or near submarin hydrotherm vent some of the microorgan that appear to have evolv earliest still live in hydrotherm vents.
when the murchison meteorit that land in australia was found to contain amino acids, how could scientist tell they had arriv with the meteorit rather than have contamin it after it land about half of the amino acid were d isom and half were l isomers, wherea near all organ molecul on earth are in the l configuration.
huntington disease, a progress nervous system disorder, is inherit as a domin trait. the songwrit woodi guthri die of huntington disease. if he was heterozyg for the trait and his wife did not carri it, what was the probabl that their son would develop huntington diseas (make a punnet square) 50%
if both parent are heterozyg for a trait, what is the probabl that a given offspr of their will  the recess trait assum the gene for the trait is not sex-linked. (make punnet square) 1/4
for fruit flies, brown bodi color (b) is domin to black bodi color (b). a brown fruit fli is cross with a black fruit fly. both fli are purebred. what will the offspr genotyp be (make punnet square) all bb
dure metaphas i, the tetrad are align at the metaphas plate. how doe their arrang influenc genet variat what is this concept call the two set of duplic homolog chromosom synapsi at metaphas i. the posit of the two duplic chromosom on either side in the middl of the cell is independ assortment. the separ of the two set of duplic homolog chromosom is segregation.
explain how cross over increas genet variation. non-sist chromatid from homolog chromosom exchang genet ination, usual at two or more locat per chromosom depend on the size.
describ how independ assort dure meiosi increas genet variation. the random arrang of chromosom dure metaphas i creat gamet that are genet uniqu from one another.
describ in order the four phase that occur dure meiosi ii. prophas ii, metaphas ii, anaphas ii, telophas ii
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
gymnosperm began to appear in the fossil record around [...] year ago, as a  of a [...] event from an ancestr [...] plant group gymnosperm began to appear in the fossil record around 300 million year ago, as a  of a genom duplic event from an ancestr fern-lik plant group
in gymnosperms: leav are call [...] . these never [...] ; have [...] ; most gymnosperm can surviv [...] condit in gymnosperms: leav are call needl . these never shed ; have stomata ; most gymnosperm can surviv winter condit
for gymnosperm , the [...] is it stem. this portion is non- [...] . the outer cover is [...] made up of [...] . the xylem and phloem are compos of [...] in the interior of the [...] . for gymnosperm , the trunk is it stem. this portion is non- photosynthet . the outer cover is bark made up of dead cell . the xylem and phloem are compos of live cell in the interior of the trunk .
gymnosperm have an extens [...] to gather water for the plant. gymnosperm have an extens root system to gather water for the plant.
gymnosperm have an extens root system to gather [...] for the plant. gymnosperm have an extens root system to gather water for the plant.
needl of gymnosperm are [...] unit needl of gymnosperm are photosynthet unit
gymnosperm can grow to [...] tall compar to fern that onli grow [...] tall. gymnosperm can grow to 10 m tall compar to fern that onli grow 0.5 m tall.
the leav of modern fern are call [...] and the stem has [...] on the [...] layer of it cells. moreover, the stem has [...] structur to transport water, nutrient and wast in it [...] . the leav of modern fern are call frond and the stem has stomata on the outer layer of it cells. moreover, the stem has xylem and phloem structur to transport water, nutrient and wast in it interior .
a tini open or pore that is use for gas exchange. they are most found on the under-surfac of plant leav (also in fern). stoma (or stomata)
stoma (or stomata) a tini open or pore that is use for gas exchange. they are most found on the under-surfac of plant leav (also in fern).
  
most fern cannot surviv [...] conditions. most fern cannot surviv winter conditions.
fern have a [...] system to gather water. therefore, fern prefer [...] environ fern have a shallow root system to gather water. therefore, fern prefer moist environ
gymnosperm alter of generat : the [...] make the ovum (pine cone and pollen (not a pine cone... wooden berri gymnosperm alter of generat : the megastrobulus make the ovum (pine cone and pollen (not a pine cone... wooden berri
gymnosperm altern of generat (#1): sporophyt produc [...] (pollen) and [...] (ovum) gymnosperm altern of generat (#1): sporophyt produc male gamet (pollen) and femal gamet (ovum)
gymnosperm altern of generat (#1): sporophyt produc male gamet ( [...] ) and femal gamet ( [...] ) gymnosperm altern of generat (#1): sporophyt produc male gamet ( pollen ) and femal gamet ( ovum )
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
gymnosperm alter of generat : the megastrobulus make the [...] and [...] gymnosperm alter of generat : the megastrobulus make the ovum (pine cone and pollen (not a pine cone... wooden berri
  
in the gymnosperm alter of generat : precursor cell are [...] and call [...] in the gymnosperm alter of generat : precursor cell are 2n and call microsporocyt
  
gymnosperm alter of generat (#2) : [...] (which is 2 n) undergo meiosi to make four 1n cell ; which are the ovum and three cell that constitut the femal gametophyt gymnosperm alter of generat (#2) : megasporocyt (which is 2 n) undergo meiosi to make four 1n cell ; which are the ovum and three cell that constitut the femal gametophyt
gymnosperm alter of generat (#2) : megasporocyt (which is [...] n) undergo [...] to make four 1n cell ; which are the ovum and three cell that constitut the femal gametophyt gymnosperm alter of generat (#2) : megasporocyt (which is 2 n) undergo meiosi to make four 1n cell ; which are the ovum and three cell that constitut the femal gametophyt
gymnosperm alter of generat (#2) : megasporocyt (which is 2 n) undergo meiosi to make [...] ; which are the [...] and [...] that constitut the [...] gametophyt gymnosperm alter of generat (#2) : megasporocyt (which is 2 n) undergo meiosi to make four 1n cell ; which are the ovum and three cell that constitut the femal gametophyt
gymnosperm alter of generat (#3 aka fertilization) : the pollen grain (also known as the [...] and is [...] ) enter the megastrobalus (which make pollen and ovum) and the [...] of the pollen grain fuse with the [...] which is also [...] . gymnosperm alter of generat (#3 aka fertilization) : the pollen grain (also known as the male gametophyt and is 1n ) enter the megastrobalus (which make pollen and ovum) and the nucleus of the pollen grain fuse with the ovum nucleus which is also 1n .
gymnosperm alter of generat (#3 aka fertilization) : the [...] (also known as the male gametophyt and is 1n ) enter the megastrobalus (which make pollen and ovum) and the nucleus of the [...] fuse with the ovum nucleus which is also 1n. gymnosperm alter of generat (#3 aka fertilization) : the pollen grain (also known as the male gametophyt and is 1n ) enter the megastrobalus (which make pollen and ovum) and the nucleus of the pollen grain fuse with the ovum nucleus which is also 1n.
gymnosperm alter of generat (#3 aka fertilization) : the pollen grain (also known as the male gametophyt and is 1n ) [...] the megastrobalus (which make pollen and ovum) and the nucleus of the pollen grain [...] with the ovum nucleus which is also 1n. gymnosperm alter of generat (#3 aka fertilization) : the pollen grain (also known as the male gametophyt and is 1n ) enter the megastrobalus (which make pollen and ovum) and the nucleus of the pollen grain fuse with the ovum nucleus which is also 1n.
dure the fertil stage of gymnosperm alter of generations, the pollen releas an [...] which claw through the cone to get to the ovum. dure the fertil stage of gymnosperm alter of generations, the pollen releas an enzym which claw through the cone to get to the ovum.
dure the fertil stage of gymnosperm alter of generations, the pollen releas an enzym which [...] dure the fertil stage of gymnosperm alter of generations, the pollen releas an enzym which claw through the cone to get to the ovum.
the gamet of gymnosperm label the part //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } the gamet of gymnosperm label the part  
the gamet of gymnosperm label the part //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } the gamet of gymnosperm label the part  
the gamet of gymnosperm label the part //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } the gamet of gymnosperm label the part  
the gamet of gymnosperm label the part //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } the gamet of gymnosperm label the part  
the gamet of gymnosperm label the part //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } the gamet of gymnosperm label the part  
the gamet of gymnosperm label the part //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } the gamet of gymnosperm label the part  
the gamet of gymnosperm label the part //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } the gamet of gymnosperm label the part  
the gamet of gymnosperm label the part //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } the gamet of gymnosperm label the part  
the gamet of gymnosperm label the part //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } the gamet of gymnosperm label the part  
the fertil of the gamet (both [...] in the gymnosperm produc a [...] [...] the fertil of the gamet (both 1n in the gymnosperm produc a 2n zygot
  
the gymnosperm [...] are tini compar to the [...] the gymnosperm gametophyt are tini compar to the sporophyt
gymnosperm altern of generation: insid the ovul is the [...] which hous the diploid megasporocyt . through meiosi it will produc haploid megaspor that give rise to eggs. insid the pollen cone is the diploid [...] which will undergo mitosi to produc diploid microsporocyt . by meiosi it will produc haploid pollen grain . gymnosperm altern of generation: insid the ovul is the megasporangium which hous the diploid megasporocyt . through meiosi it will produc haploid megaspor that give rise to eggs. insid the pollen cone is the diploid microsporangium which will undergo mitosi to produc diploid microsporocyt . by meiosi it will produc haploid pollen grain .
gymnosperm altern of generation: insid the ovul is the megasporangium which hous the diploid [...] . through meiosi it will produc [...] that give rise to eggs. insid the pollen cone is the diploid microsporangium which will undergo mitosi to produc diploid [...] . by meiosi it will produc [...] . gymnosperm altern of generation: insid the ovul is the megasporangium which hous the diploid megasporocyt . through meiosi it will produc haploid megaspor that give rise to eggs. insid the pollen cone is the diploid microsporangium which will undergo mitosi to produc diploid microsporocyt . by meiosi it will produc haploid pollen grain .
gymnosperms, becaus they don't have flowers, reproduc by [...] . gymnosperms, becaus they don't have flowers, reproduc by wind .
altern of generat in gymnosperm (after fertilization): the 2n zygot matur to becom a [...] of megastrobulus get modifi to have [...] . each scale of the megastrobulus contain 2 ovul so there are 2 ova [...]  in [...] . altern of generat in gymnosperm (after fertilization): the 2n zygot matur to becom a scale of megastrobulus get modifi to have wing . each scale of the megastrobulus contain 2 ovul so there are 2 ova fertil  in 2 seed .
altern of generat in gymnosperm (#5): when the pine cone/matur megastrobulus [...] , by [...] or water, the seed are carri from the flap and are [...] . altern of generat in gymnosperm (#5): when the pine cone/matur megastrobulus open , by wind or water, the seed are carri from the flap and are disperes .
altern of generat in gymnosperms: onc the wing " [...] " seed settles, it implant in soil and an [...] develops. it develop into a [...] ! altern of generat in gymnosperms: onc the wing " nake " seed settles, it implant in soil and an embryo develops. it develop into a sporophyt !
differ between gymnosperm and fern alter of generations: 1. gametophyt is great [...] in cell number in gymnosperm ( [...] ) 2. gymnosperm male gamet is spread by [...] ; not through a [...] environ 3. there are [...] in gymnosperms; instead of a [...] to carri the zygot like in fern 4. [...] can be distribut by wind differ between gymnosperm and fern alter of generations: 1. gametophyt is great reduc in cell number in gymnosperm ( 4 cell ovum; mani fern spore ) 2. gymnosperm male gamet is spread by wind ; not through a water environ 3. there are true seed in gymnosperms; instead of a capsul to carri the zygot like in fern 4. seed can be distribut by wind
angiosperm first appear [...] ago... aka jurass world angiosperm first appear 150 million year ago... aka jurass world
gymnosperm are common known as " [...] " gymnosperm are common known as " nake seed "
angiosperm are [...] plant angiosperm are flower plant
there are more [...] than all other type of plant combin there are more angiosperm than all other type of plant combin
[...] angiosperm are one that seed everi season annual angiosperm are one that seed everi season
annual angiosperm are one that [...] annual angiosperm are one that seed everi season
[...] angiosperm are one whose leav fall off but stay aliv all season perreni angiosperm are one whose leav fall off but stay aliv all season
perreni angiosperm are one whose [...] perreni angiosperm are one whose leav fall off but stay aliv all season
matur angiosperm //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } matur angiosperm  
matur angiosperm //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } matur angiosperm  
matur angiosperm //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } matur angiosperm  
matur angiosperm //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } matur angiosperm  
matur angiosperm //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } matur angiosperm  
matur angiosperm //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } matur angiosperm  
matur angiosperm //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } matur angiosperm  
the [...] of angiosperm undergo photosynthesi (respiration, and photorespiration) to convert light energy, o 2 , and co 2 into sugar (c 6 h 12 o 6 ) and starch. the leav of angiosperm undergo photosynthesi (respiration, and photorespiration) to convert light energy, o 2 , and co 2 into sugar (c 6 h 12 o 6 ) and starch.
the leav of angiosperm undergo [...] ( [...] , and [...] ) to convert [...] , [...] , and [...] into [...] and [...] . the leav of angiosperm undergo photosynthesi ( respir , and photorespir ) to convert light energi , o 2 , and co 2 into sugar (c 6 h 12 o 6 ) and starch .
in angiosperms, the sugar and water travel up and down network insid the stem call the [...] in angiosperms, the sugar and water travel up and down network insid the stem call the xylem and phloem
in angiosperms, h 2 o vapor and o 2 and co 2 pass through membran of the cell that make up it [...] in angiosperms, h 2 o vapor and o 2 and co 2 pass through membran of the cell that make up it leav
the [...] of angiosperm store starch, sugar, as well as the seed for futur reproduction. the fruit of angiosperm store starch, sugar, as well as the seed for futur reproduction.
the fruit of angiosperm store [...] , [...] , as well as the [...] for futur reproduction. the fruit of angiosperm store starch , sugar , as well as the seed for futur reproduction.
the [...] of angiosperm allow for respir but no photorespiration. these absorb o 2 and co 2 and h 2 o and miner (4) the root of angiosperm allow for respir but no photorespiration. these absorb o 2 and co 2 and h 2 o and miner (4)
the root of angiosperm allow for respir but no [...] . these absorb [...] (4) the root of angiosperm allow for respir but no photorespir . these absorb o 2 and co 2 and h 2 o and miner (4)
gymnosperm vs angiosperm : compar both their sporophyt and gametophytes. gymnosperms: have 2 differ cone (femal and male gametophytes), each contain the pollen and ovule. angiosperms: both male and femal gametophyt are insid the flower... both sporophyt and gametophyt are 2n and 1n (respectively)
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
angiosperm life cycl //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } angiosperm life cycl  
angiosperm life cycl //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } angiosperm life cycl  
angiosperm life cycl //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } angiosperm life cycl  
angiosperm life cycl //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } angiosperm life cycl  
angiosperm life cycl //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } angiosperm life cycl  
angiosperm life cycl //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } angiosperm life cycl  
angiosperm life cycl //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } angiosperm life cycl  
angiosperm life cycl //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } angiosperm life cycl  
angiosperm life cycl //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } angiosperm life cycl  
angiosperm life cycl //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } angiosperm life cycl  
angiosperm life cycl //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } angiosperm life cycl  
angiosperm life cycl //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } angiosperm life cycl  
angiosperm life cycl //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } angiosperm life cycl  
angiosperm life cycl //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } angiosperm life cycl  
angiosperm life cycl //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } angiosperm life cycl  
angiosperm life cycl //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } angiosperm life cycl  
angiosperm life cycl //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } angiosperm life cycl  
angiosperm life cycl //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } angiosperm life cycl  
angiosperm life cycl //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } angiosperm life cycl  
angiosperm life cycl //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } angiosperm life cycl  
angiosperm life cycl //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } angiosperm life cycl  
angiosperm life cycl //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } angiosperm life cycl  
angiosperm life cycl //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } angiosperm life cycl  
angiosperm life cycl //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } angiosperm life cycl  
angiosperm life cycl //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } angiosperm life cycl  
differ organ (pollin like ) are attract to the flower by differ things, often it or  
angiosperm are capabl of [...] for reproduction. angiosperm are capabl of contan both the male and femal part for reproduction.
some angiosperm can be [...] -sex like an [...] or even sperat sex some angiosperm can be singl -sex like an avocado tree or even sperat sex
some angiosperm can be single-sex like an avocado tree or even [...] sex some angiosperm can be single-sex like an avocado tree or even sperat sex
the [...] of angiosperm are mega-gametophyt chamber consist of the ovule, megasporocyt which is 2n , and the megasporangium . onc it undergo meiosi , it produc a surviv 1n megaspor the ovari of angiosperm are mega-gametophyt chamber consist of the ovule, megasporocyt which is 2n , and the megasporangium . onc it undergo meiosi , it produc a surviv 1n megaspor
the ovari of angiosperm are [...] chamber consist of the [...] , [...] which is [...] , and the [...] . onc it undergo [...] , it produc a surviv [...] [...] the ovari of angiosperm are mega-gametophyt chamber consist of the ovul , megasporocyt which is 2n , and the megasporangium . onc it undergo meiosi , it produc a surviv 1n megaspor
the ovari of angiosperm consist of [...] nuclei, veri [...] quantiti compar to fern the ovari of angiosperm consist of 8 nuclei, veri small quantiti compar to fern
the stigma is [...] . the stigma is sticki .
stigma (a part of the pistil) the site where pollen grain will attach to the ovary.
(a part of the pistil) the site where pollen grain will attach to the ovary. stigma
onc the pollen attach to the stigma, it releas [...] that make a [...] aka [...] through the  to the ovari for fertil . onc the pollen attach to the stigma, it releas enzym that make a channel aka pollen tube through the  to the ovari for fertil .
in order for fertil to occur in angiosperms, [...] must make it through the  to the ovary. ***uniqu characteristic*** in order for fertil to occur in angiosperms, 2 pollen grain must make it through the  to the ovary. ***uniqu characteristic***
the anther has [...] and within these are microsporocyyt (diploid) that undergo meiosi to divid into 4 microspor (haploid) aka pollen. the anther has sever chamber and within these are microsporocyyt (diploid) that undergo meiosi to divid into 4 microspor (haploid) aka pollen.
the anther has sever chamber and within these are [...] ( [...] ) that undergo meiosi to divid into [...] ( [...] ) aka pollen. the anther has sever chamber and within these are microsporocyyt ( diploid ) that undergo meiosi to divid into 4 microspor ( haploid ) aka pollen.
angiosperm pollen do not have [...] like gymnosperms... but they are [...] so they can still be carri by the [...] . angiosperm pollen do not have wing like gymnosperms... but they are round and small so they can still be carri by the wind .
within the ovari of angiosperms, is an ovul that undergo meiosi to produc [...] ... onli [...] survives. within the ovari of angiosperms, is an ovul that undergo meiosi to produc 4 diploid megasporocyt ... onli one survives.
angiosperm are consid [...] becaus they produc both microspor and megaspor angiosperm are consid heterospor becaus they produc both microspor and megaspor
angiosperm are consid heterospor becaus they produc both [...] angiosperm are consid heterospor becaus they produc both microspor and megaspor
angiosperm life cycle: each microspor undergo mitosi to produc a [...] , this is a [...] male gametophyt also known as a [...] angiosperm life cycle: each microspor undergo mitosi to produc a pollen grain , this is a haploid male gametophyt also known as a microgametophyt
angiosperm life cycle: the surviv megaspor divid by [...] to produc seven (7) haploid cells: one larg center cell contain 2 nuclei (total of 8 within the megagametophyt (1n) angiosperm life cycle: the surviv megaspor divid by mitosi to produc seven (7) haploid cells: one larg center cell contain 2 nuclei (total of 8 within the megagametophyt (1n)
angiosperm life cycle: the surviv megaspor divid by mitosi to produc [...] haploid cells: one larg center cell contain 2 nuclei (total of 8 within the megagametophyt (1n) angiosperm life cycle: the surviv megaspor divid by mitosi to produc seven (7) haploid cells: one larg center cell contain 2 nuclei (total of 8 within the megagametophyt (1n)
angiosperm life cycle: the surviv megaspor divid by mitosi to produc seven (7) haploid cells: one larg center cell contain [...] (total of 8 within the megagametophyt (1n) angiosperm life cycle: the surviv megaspor divid by mitosi to produc seven (7) haploid cells: one larg center cell contain 2 nuclei (total of 8 within the megagametophyt (1n)
the process when pollen land on the stigma and  the pollen tube is [...] the process when pollen land on the stigma and  the pollen tube is germin
2 pollen grain travel to the ovule: 1 [...] an egg  a 2n [...] ; the other [...] a polar nuclei  a [...] which is [...] . this process is known as doubl fertil 2 pollen grain travel to the ovule: 1 fertil an egg  a 2n zygot ; the other fertil a polar nuclei  a triploid cell which is 3n . this process is known as doubl fertil
2 pollen grain travel to the ovule: 1 fertil an egg  a 2n zygote; the other fertil a polar nuclei  a triploid cell which is 3n. this process is known as [...] 2 pollen grain travel to the ovule: 1 fertil an egg  a 2n zygote; the other fertil a polar nuclei  a triploid cell which is 3n. this process is known as doubl fertil
the fertil of the egg cell and the central cell ( a 3n cell) is call [...] the fertil of the egg cell and the central cell ( a 3n cell) is call doubl fertil
after doubl fertilization: the [...] develop into the embryo. the [...] develop into the endosperm of the seed. after doubl fertilization: the zygot (2n) develop into the embryo. the triploid cell (3n) develop into the endosperm of the seed.
after doubl fertilization: the zygot (2n) develop into the [...] . the triploid cell (3n) develop into the [...] of the seed. after doubl fertilization: the zygot (2n) develop into the embryo . the triploid cell (3n) develop into the endosperm of the seed.
onc the angiosperm seed germinates, the sporophyt matur to becom a [...] ... the lifecycl begin again! onc the angiosperm seed germinates, the sporophyt matur to becom a seedl ... the lifecycl begin again!
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
fruit = [...] fruit = ovari
a plant that is eaten veget
veget a plant that is eaten
exampl of veget tomato, potato, lettuce, cucumber, cabbag
the edibl part of a plant consist of seed and pulpi surround tissu fruit
fruit the edibl part of a plant consist of seed and pulpi surround tissu
is cucumb a fruit or veget both
are walnut fruit or veget fruit
whi studi biodivers to get a better understand of how cell work and how we can use that to our benefit.. there are lesson to be learn .. i.e. how this can regener complet
what is this whi is it interest tardigrad or "water bear" - doesn't die in 0 oxygen or absolut 0 environments... surviv in space
systemat the scienc of catalog (classifying) biodivers (figur how mani kind of organ there are and how they relat to each other)
the scienc of catalog (classifying) biodivers (figur how mani kind of organ there are and how they relat to each other) systemat
taxonomi the scienc of name the live organ
scala natura scale of natur - origin deriv by plato/aristotl a hierarch orgin of thing in the environ (both live and nonliving).
scale of natur - origin deriv by plato/aristotl a hierarch orgin of thing in the environ (both live and nonliving). scala natura
the concept of "scale of nature" was adopt by the 18th centuri swiss naturalist [...] who made his own version that order things/creatures/man by [...] , [...] , and [...] the concept of "scale of nature" was adopt by the 18th centuri swiss naturalist charl bonnet who made his own version that order things/creatures/man by anatom complex , religi signific , and practic use
this think of "scale of nature" still persist today in the  of there be [...] . this think of "scale of nature" still persist today in the  of there be lower and higher anim .
the concept of "scale of nature" is [...] becaus it lead to wrong think of evolution. everi current live organ is here beaus it is good enough that it surviv in the current environment. the concept of "scale of nature" is wrong becaus it lead to wrong think of evolution. everi current live organ is here beaus it is good enough that it surviv in the current environment.
the concept of "scale of nature" is wrong becaus it lead to wrong think of evolution. everi current live organ is here beaus it is [...] the concept of "scale of nature" is wrong becaus it lead to wrong think of evolution. everi current live organ is here beaus it is good enough that it surviv in the current environment.
everyth that is aliv today is here becaus it ancestor were [...] everyth that is aliv today is here becaus it ancestor were good enough to surviv their environ
everyth that is aliv today is here [...] ... all are the [...] of [...] ... just differ evolv not that [...] gave rise to [...] everyth that is aliv today is here at the same time ... all are the end-product of evolut ... just differ evolv not that simpl anim gave rise to complex anim
baron cuvier organ anim into 4 groups: radiata (circular animals; jellyfish and starfish), articulata (segment animals; worms), mollusca (anim with shell and brain), and vertebrata (boni skeleton, muscular heart, red blood)
baron cuvier organ has no hierchy... but also has no relationship ... he didn't believ in evolution; was a creationist (:d)
lamarck is credit with the theori of...; and the ... inherit characteristics.. tree of life
which scientist made this 19th centuri german scientist haeckel
whi doe the tree analog work (kind of) for evolut twig = speci close proxym = close relat branch = deeper relationship (phyla) all twig and branch come from one ancestor
plural of phylum phyla
what make someth a part of phylum animala (has to have 4 things) notochord, dorsal hollow nerv cord, post anal tail, pharyng gill slit all more evid dure embryo stage
a group of organ that share a common bodi plan and evolutionari or phylogen relationship phylum
there are [...] anim phyla recogn today there are 30-35 anim phyla recogn today
except to categor phyla: some organ with similar bodi plan are distant relat so are in [...] phyla some organ with differ bodi plan are found close relat and are place in [...] phylum except to categor phyla: some organ with similar bodi plan are distant relat so are in differ phyla some organ with differ bodi plan are found close relat and are place in same phylum
9 well known phyla are .. and 4 more common are porifera, cnidaria, arthropoda, nematoda, annelida, mollusca, platyhelminthes, echinodermata; bryozoa, nemertea, rotifera, tardigrada
what is an anim eukaryot or prokaryot eukaryot
what is an anim cell wall or no cell wall (which has do /don't) lack a cell wall. plant and fungi do have cell wall
what is an anim haploid or diploid diploid bodi  (haploid gamet - product of meiosis)
what is an anim stationari or mobil mobil (usually)
what is an anim asexu or sexual reproduct sexual reprodcu (anisogamous) - usual
anisogam gametes: big egg and small sperm
what is an anim autotroph or heterotroph explain heterotroph that ingest food and digest it in an intern caviti
what is an anim what is the level of organ of the compon that make up an animal.. (cell) → tissu → organ → organ system (like nervous/sensory, motor, gas exchange, excretory, digestive, circulatory, reproductive)
___ are the closest single-cel relat of anim choanoflagel
choanoflagel  multicellular [...] but lack [...] cell type with a [...] of labor choanoflagel  multicellular coloni but lack differenti cell type with a divis of labor
isogami when gamet are rough the same size to each other and matur cell
anisogami benefit most anim - small sperm : easier to move (fast) larg ovum - full of nutrient
not all anim have sex! exampl bdelloid rotiff have secondarili lost sex!!! femal reproduc through parthenogenesis. male have never been observed. genom : 80 million year without sex
femal bdelloid rotif reproduc through parthenogenesi
bdelloid rotif haven't had sex for (years) 80 million year
anim sexual reproduct & develop //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } anim sexual reproduct & develop  
anim sexual reproduct & develop //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } anim sexual reproduct & develop  
anim sexual reproduct & develop //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } anim sexual reproduct & develop  
anim sexual reproduct & develop //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } anim sexual reproduct & develop  
anim sexual reproduct & develop //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } anim sexual reproduct & develop  
anim sexual reproduct & develop //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } anim sexual reproduct & develop  
anim sexual reproduct & develop //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } anim sexual reproduct & develop  
anim sexual reproduct & develop //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } anim sexual reproduct & develop  
anim sexual reproduct & develop //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } anim sexual reproduct & develop  
anim sexual reproduct & develop //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } anim sexual reproduct & develop  
anim sexual reproduct & develop //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } anim sexual reproduct & develop  
anim sexual reproduct & develop //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } anim sexual reproduct & develop  
anim sexual reproduct & develop //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } anim sexual reproduct & develop  
what are the three germ layer of a grastula (zygot that has cleavaged) ectoderm, mesoderm, endoderm
how is anim sexual reproduct and develop similar to the relat choanoflagel coloni choanoflagel resembl blastula stage
air travel through the [...] at the top of the trachea to the lung air travel through the voic box at the top of the trachea to the lung
air travel through the voic box at the top of the [...] to the lung air travel through the voic box at the top of the trachea to the lung
right lung has [...] lobe and left has 2 right lung has 3 lobe and left has 2
right lung has 3 lobe and left has [...] right lung has 3 lobe and left has 2
[...] make an indent in the left lung cardiac notch make an indent in the left lung
cardiac notch make an indent in the [...] cardiac notch make an indent in the left lung
thorax includ the lung and the heart and is bound by the diaphragm underneath and the [...] on the side thorax includ the lung and the heart and is bound by the diaphragm underneath and the rib on the side
thorax includ the lung and the heart and is bound by the [...] underneath and the rib on the side thorax includ the lung and the heart and is bound by the diaphragm underneath and the rib on the side
[...] includ the lung and the heart and is bound by the diaphragm underneath and the rib on the side thorax includ the lung and the heart and is bound by the diaphragm underneath and the rib on the side
at the [...] oxygen is exchang into the blood and co2 is pick up at the alveoli oxygen is exchang into the blood and co2 is pick up
at the alveoli [...] is exchang into the blood and co2 is pick up at the alveoli oxygen is exchang into the blood and co2 is pick up
at the alveoli oxygen is exchang into the blood and [...] is pick up at the alveoli oxygen is exchang into the blood and co2 is pick up
inhal involv [...] the volum of our lung and decreas the pressur in our lung inhal involv increas the volum of our lung and decreas the pressur in our lung
inhal involv increas the [...] of our lung and decreas the pressur in our lung inhal involv increas the volum of our lung and decreas the pressur in our lung
inhal involv increas the volum of our lung and [...] the pressur in our lung inhal involv increas the volum of our lung and decreas the pressur in our lung
inhal involv increas the volum of our lung and decreas the [...] in our lung inhal involv increas the volum of our lung and decreas the pressur in our lung
exhal involv [...] the volum of our lung and increas the pressur in our lung exhal involv decreas the volum of our lung and increas the pressur in our lung
exhal involv decreas the [...] of our lung and increas the pressur in our lung exhal involv decreas the volum of our lung and increas the pressur in our lung
exhal involv decreas the volum of our lung and [...] the pressur in our lung exhal involv decreas the volum of our lung and increas the pressur in our lung
exhal involv decreas the volum of our lung and increas the [...] in our lung exhal involv decreas the volum of our lung and increas the pressur in our lung
breastbone, where the rib attach is known as the [...] breastbone, where the rib attach is known as the sternum
in between the rib are the [...] muscl in between the rib are the intercost muscl
[...] muscl expand and diaphragm contract allow for expans of alveoli in the lung dure inhal intercost muscl expand and diaphragm contract allow for expans of alveoli in the lung dure inhal
intercost muscl [...] and diaphragm contract allow for expans of alveoli in the lung dure inhal intercost muscl expand and diaphragm contract allow for expans of alveoli in the lung dure inhal
intercost muscl expand and [...] contract allow for expans of alveoli in the lung dure inhal intercost muscl expand and diaphragm contract allow for expans of alveoli in the lung dure inhal
intercost muscl expand and diaphragm [...] allow for expans of alveoli in the lung dure inhal intercost muscl expand and diaphragm contract allow for expans of alveoli in the lung dure inhal
intercost muscl expand and diaphragm contract allow for expans of [...] in the lung dure inhal intercost muscl expand and diaphragm contract allow for expans of alveoli in the lung dure inhal
alveoli are stretch open by [...] dure inhal alveoli are stretch open by elastin dure inhal
[...] is expend dure inhal to contract the muscl atp is expend dure inhal to contract the muscl
[...] energi is use dure exhal as the alveoli recoil elast potenti energi is use dure exhal as the alveoli recoil
henri law p/kh=c p= partial pressur of solut in gas abov solution(ga go in)/ kh (solubl of substance/ gas go out) = concentr of solut dissolv in solvent
co2 is (more or less) solubl than oxygen in blod much moreee
co2 has a (greater or smaller) kh than oxygen in blood smaller!! (co2 comfi in the blood)
fick law v=( (p1-p2)* a * d)/ t v=rate of particl move a=surfac area delta p= chang in pressur d=diffus contstant t= thick of wall
d in fick law diffus constant = (solubility/ sq root of molec. wt.) = (henri law/graham law)
fick law in simplifi version: flux=gradient*diffus constant flux= rate/surfac area gradient=delta pressure/dist
almost all anim have common develop sequence: the process of a zygot becom an [...] ... divid cell that are [...] identical. the [...] stage is ubiquit among animals. almost all anim have common develop sequence: the process of a zygot becom an embryo ... divid cell that are genet identical. the blastula stage is ubiquit among animals.
in fick law, flux is rate of particles/surfac area
in fick law, gradient is delta pressure/ distanc
in the blastula stage we have a ... of cells. that surround the ... hollow ball of cell that ultim get produc after a seri of divisions... you end up with a monolay epitheli tissu shape like a ball. the cell (blastoecel) surround the blastocoel (fluid fill caviti of amino acids, proteins, growth factors, sugars, ions, and other compon necessari for cellular differentiation.)
fluid fill caviti of amino acids, proteins, growth factors, sugars, ions, and other compon necessari for cellular differenti blastocoel
process of zygot to embryo: after the blastula stage is the ... stage, in which... grastul dure which the single-lay blastula is reorgan into a trilaminar ("three-layered") structur known as the gastrula.
the three layer (aka [...] ) of the gastrula are the [...] (outermost), [...] (innermost), and the [...] (space in between the three layer (aka germ layer ) of the gastrula are the ectoderm (outermost), endoderm (innermost), and the mesoderm (space in between
the three layer (aka germ layers) of the gastrula are the ectoderm ( [...] ), endoderm ( [...] ), and the mesoderm ( [...] the three layer (aka germ layers) of the gastrula are the ectoderm ( outermost ), endoderm ( innermost ), and the mesoderm ( space in between
what is the blastospor an open into the archenteron (blastula--gastrula) dure the gastrul stage
the distinct between [...] and [...] is base on the direct in which the mouth (stoma) develop in relat to the blastopore. the distinct between protostom and deuterostom is base on the direct in which the mouth (stoma) develop in relat to the blastopore.
the distinct between protostom and deuterostom is base on the direct in which the [...] develop in relat to the [...] . the distinct between protostom and deuterostom is base on the direct in which the mouth (stoma) develop in relat to the blastopor .
in most animals, the ectoderm germ layer will produc epitheli tissue, skin, nervous system
in most animals, the endoderm germ layer will produc digest tract
in most animals, the mesoderm germ layer will produc muscl tissu (inner-structures), skeleton
oblig heterotroph (animals) requir [...] sourc for growth. how doe this compar to plant fungi [...] oblig heterotroph (animals) requir organ carbon sourc for growth. how doe this compar to plant fungi plant are autroph that take inorgan carbon dioxid and light and through phosynthesi make glucose... fungi decompos through secret enzym that brake down carbon sourc and absorb nutrient through diffus aka osmohetertroph
oblig heterotroph (animals) requir organ carbon sourc for [...] . how doe this compar to plant fungi plant are autroph that take inorgan carbon dioxid and light and through phosynthesi make glucose... fungi decompos through secret enzym that brake down carbon sourc and absorb nutrient through diffus aka osmohetertroph oblig heterotroph (animals) requir organ carbon sourc for growth . how doe this compar to plant fungi plant are autroph that take inorgan carbon dioxid and light and through phosynthesi make glucose... fungi decompos through secret enzym that brake down carbon sourc and absorb nutrient through diffus aka osmohetertroph
exampl of organ that are osmoheterotroph.. what is it fungi – decompos dead organ compound through secret enzym that brake down carbon sourc and absorb nutrient direct from environ through diffus (rather than engulfing) anim too! like tapeworms.
tapeworm are ... (feed modes) osmoheterotroph
most anim are micro/macrophagus mean they engulf their food and it get digest intern and wast is secret through an anus or open
riftia are [...] worm that [...] nutrient direct from a [...] bacteria... therefore, they have lost the need for a [...] riftia are hydrotherm vent worm that absorb nutrient direct from a symbiot bacteria... therefore, they have lost the need for a digest tract or eat
what is the feed mode of choanoflagellates.. what other anim doe this phagocytic; spong captur bacteria through collar and engulf it into cell... lysosom break down for nutrients. **rather than break it down / digest outside, each cell feed itself. ** spong have cell that look like choanoflagellates.
anim cell and tissues: they are typic eukaryotes... mean membrane-bound organelles, multi-cellular, rod-shap dna, etc...
anim cell membran contain... cholesterol
[...] and [...] cell are uniqu to animals... allow for [...] t... but are not present in all anim like placozoan and spong neuron and muscl cell are uniqu to animals... allow for dynam movemen t... but are not present in all anim like placozoan and spong
neuron and muscl cell are uniqu to animals... allow for dynam movement... but are not present in all anim like [...] neuron and muscl cell are uniqu to animals... allow for dynam movement... but are not present in all anim like placozoan and spong
  
[...] tissu are ubiquit among animals, but are also [...] in other multicellular group (like epitheli tissu are ubiquit among animals, but are also found in other multicellular group (like
epitheli tissu are ubiquit among [...] , but are also found in other multicellular group (like epitheli tissu are ubiquit among anim , but are also found in other multicellular group (like
the [...] in epitheli tissu organ are uniqu to animals: the [...] within epitheli tissu constitut the function that tissu has. the amount of detail in epitheli tissu organ are uniqu to animals: the junction within epitheli tissu constitut the function that tissu has. uniqu structur and molecular composition:
the amount of detail in epitheli tissu organ are uniqu to animals: the junction within epitheli tissu constitut the [...] that tissu has. the amount of detail in epitheli tissu organ are uniqu to animals: the junction within epitheli tissu constitut the function that tissu has. uniqu structur and molecular composition:
[...] , that have differ gene cell types,  a multicellular "stalk" with a capsul full of spores. the tissu on top of the capsul is similar to the epitheli tissu found in anim social amoeba , that have differ gene cell types,  a multicellular "stalk" with a capsul full of spores. the tissu on top of the capsul is similar to the epitheli tissu found in anim
there are [...] class of nuclear gene uniqu to animals... like [...] and [...] . there are mani class of nuclear gene uniqu to animals... like cell adhes gene and development signal gene .
[...] genom in anim are great reduced... deriv from a eubacteri ancestor through endosymbiosis. use to be bigger! mitochondri genom in anim are great reduced... deriv from a eubacteri ancestor through endosymbiosis. use to be bigger!
point at which fossil record coincid with modern anim //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } point at which fossil record coincid with modern anim  
point at which fossil record coincid with modern anim //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } point at which fossil record coincid with modern anim  
point at which fossil record coincid with modern anim //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } point at which fossil record coincid with modern anim  
point at which fossil record coincid with modern anim //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } point at which fossil record coincid with modern anim  
point at which fossil record coincid with modern anim //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } point at which fossil record coincid with modern anim  
point at which fossil record coincid with modern anim //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } point at which fossil record coincid with modern anim  
when was there a shift in the fossil record show anim that relat to those aliv today and those we don't see anymor what are the two anim call 542 million year ago (before: ediacaran biota – after: cambrian animals)
ediacaran biota who live prior to 542 million year ago fed like osmoheterotroph - fed by diffus of debri with bacteria
is this an anim is it a new phyla no. discov in 1970s . actual belongsin cnidaria and is relat to jellyfish.
phyla that are non-bilaterian (4 and give anim examples) porifera (sponges), ctenophora (comb jelly), placozoa (basal  of invertebrate), cnidaria (sea anemone, jellyfish)
phyla that are in bilateria (4 phyla and the minor phyla; and give anim examples) – xenacoelomorpha – ecdysozoa: • arthropod (insects, crustaceans, arachnids) • nematod (roundworms) – lophotrochozoa: • mollusc (snails, oysters, squid) • annelid (earthworms, centepedes, millipedes) – deuterostomia • gdinodom ( ) - lost bilater symmetri • chordat (vertibrates; humans, frogs, monkeys, etc.)
protostom are anim in bilateria, whose blastopor becom the ... dure embryon development. these includ phyla: mouth - first open of the digest tract. (the anus develop from an open later inn development) arthropods, nematodes, molluscs, and annelid
deuterostom are anim in bilateria, whose blastopor becom the ... dure embryon development. these includ phyla: anus (mouth  later)- chordat (vertebrates, sea squirts), echinodermata (sea stars, sea urchins), hemichordata (acornworms)
spong are in phylum... cnidaria
comb jelli are in phylum placozoa
jellydish are in phylum cnidaria
roundworm are in phylum nematoda
coral are in phylum cnidaria
grasshopp are in phylum arthropoda
lobster and crab (crustaceans) are in phylum arhropoda
earthworm are in phylum annelida
snail are in phylum mollusca
leech are in phylum annelida
squid are in phylum mollusca
clam are in phylum mollusca
vertebr (mammals, amphibians, reptiles) are in phylum chordata
sea urchin are in phylum echinodermata
acorn worm are in phylum hemichordata
star fish are in phylum echinodermata
xenacoelomorpha basal bilaterian clade of small and veri simpl anim
ecdysozoa bilateria - but also in protostomia includ arthropod and nematod
lophotrochozoa are bilateria - and protosomia includ mollusc and annelid
which group includ snail snail are molluscs; mollusc are lophotrochozoan
anim befor the cambrian period (542 mya) are ediacaran biota - fed by abosorb bacteria in the debri
what could futur anim look like canin transmiss vener tumor - found in dog (and tazmanian devils); has persist for sever hundr years.. unicellular
whi is it not best to reli on a checklist of trait to determin if an organ is an anim ... becaus trait can... (give examples) – trait can evolv independ (epitheli tissue); – trait can be secondarili lost (gut in tube worms; or multicellular ctvt/canin tumor) – new anim might be found (dendrogramma)
if anim cannot be reliabl defin base upon the presenc of specif traits, how can they be defin by the phylogenet definition/approach –– anim can be defin as the descend of a specif ancestor on a phylogenet tree
anim can be defin as the [...] of a specif ancestor on a phylogenet tree anim can be defin as the descend of a specif ancestor on a phylogenet tree
anim can be defin as the descend of a [...] on a phylogenet tree anim can be defin as the descend of a specif ancestor on a phylogenet tree
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
 //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  }  
[...] anim most lack bilater symmetry... anim like [...] non-bilaterian anim most lack bilater symmetry... anim like spong
non-bilaterian anim most lack [...] symmetry... anim like spong non-bilaterian anim most lack bilater symmetry... anim like spong
[...] anim have bilater symmetry, mean that if you cut it in half it will look the same extern on both sides. bilater anim have bilater symmetry, mean that if you cut it in half it will look the same extern on both sides.
bilater anim have [...] symmetry, mean that if you [...] . bilater anim have bilater symmetry, mean that if you cut it in half it will look the same extern on both side .
symmetri around a central axis, as in a... radial symmetry; starfish
non-bilater phyla //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } non-bilater phyla  
non-bilater phyla //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } non-bilater phyla  
non-bilater phyla //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } non-bilater phyla  
non-bilater phyla //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } non-bilater phyla  
non-bilater phyla //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } non-bilater phyla  
non-bilater phyla //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } non-bilater phyla  
non-bilater phyla //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } non-bilater phyla  
non-bilater phyla //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } non-bilater phyla  
non-bilater phyla //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } non-bilater phyla  
non-bilater phyla //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } non-bilater phyla  
non-bilater phyla //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } non-bilater phyla  
non-bilater phyla //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } non-bilater phyla  
non-bilater phyla //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } non-bilater phyla  
non-bilater phyla //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } non-bilater phyla  
non-bilater phyla //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } non-bilater phyla  
non-bilater phyla //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } non-bilater phyla  
non-bilater phyla //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } non-bilater phyla  
non-bilater phyla //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } non-bilater phyla  
non-bilater phyla //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } non-bilater phyla  
non-bilater phyla //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } non-bilater phyla  
non-bilater phyla //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } non-bilater phyla  
non-bilater phyla //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } non-bilater phyla  
non-bilater phyla //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } non-bilater phyla  
non-bilater phyla //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } non-bilater phyla  
non-bilater phyla //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } non-bilater phyla  
non-bilater phyla //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } non-bilater phyla  
non-bilater phyla //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } non-bilater phyla  
non-bilater phyla //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } non-bilater phyla  
non-bilater phyla //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } non-bilater phyla  
non-bilater phyla //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } non-bilater phyla  
non-bilater phyla //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } non-bilater phyla  
non-bilater phyla //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } non-bilater phyla  
non-bilater phyla //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } non-bilater phyla  
non-bilater phyla //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } non-bilater phyla  
non-bilater phyla //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } non-bilater phyla  
non-bilater phyla //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } non-bilater phyla  
non-bilater phyla //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } non-bilater phyla  
non-bilater phyla //  answer  on click the imag var  = function() { var  = document.getelementbyid('io-overlay'); if (.. ===  .. === ') .. = none'; els .. =  } non-bilater phyla  
bilater and non-bilater is also evid dure develop for example: bilater gene express is present dure sea anemon develop
non-bilaterian have ____ embryon germlay 2 (diplo-) - no mesoderm
bilaterian have ____ embryon germlay 3 (triploblast)
spiral cleavag (which organisms, what is it ) typic of protostom (bilateral) cell move to the side... diagon (top-right)
radial cleavag typic of deuterosom cell move direct abov -
bilaterian are determin on 3 characteristics: bodi cavities, segmentation, and pattern of cleavag dure embryogenesi (cell division)
the 2 pattern of cleavag within bilaterian are spiral and radial
3 type of bodi caviti within bilaterian are coelom pseudocoelom acoelom
fluid fill bodi caviy line by an epithelium (in bilaterians) coelom
coelom fluid fill bodi caviy line by an epithelium (in bilaterians)
reduc fluid fill caviti not line by epithelium (in bilaterians) pseudocoelom
pseudocoelom reduc fluid fill caviti not line by epithelium (in bilaterians)
no bodi caviti (in bilaterians) acoelom
acoelom no bodi caviti (in bilaterians)
segment characteristica in bilaterian can be wrong... give an exampl segment worm were group with crustacean and insects, but are actual it own phyla of annelida
4 major group of bilaterian that are recogn today are: xenacoelomorpha (some worms) lophotrochozoa / spiralia (other worms, molluscs, moss animals) ecdysozoa (more worms, insects, crabs, spiders, etc.) deuterostomia (more worms! starfishs, urchins, tunicates, vertebrates)
in which group do human fall vertebr – deuterostomia
phylum porifera: anim exampl spong
spong phylum porifera: anim exampl
phylum porifera: live in marin and fresh water (on onc in evolution)
phylum porifera: reproduct sexual and asexu reproduct
phylum porifera: symmetri assymetr (kind of)
phylum porifera: how mani speci 10,000
phylum porifera: muscl none
phylum porifera: neuron none
phylum porifera: gut how do they eat none - phagocyt bacterivori - each cell feed on bacteria direct by engulf and have lysosom break it down (like in choanoflagellates)
phylum porifera: germ line no sequest germ line - ani kind of cell can give rise to ani gamet
phylum porifera: feeding, circulation, excret no systems... just water vascular system (water pass through)
phylum porifera: cellular dissoci yes! can surviv cellular dissociation! - individu cell will  togeth
phylum porifera: skeleton spong skeleton: micro/macroscop skelet elements– made of silica (glass) or calcium carbon fiber skeleton - made of protein collagen call spongin
spong skeleton: micro/macroscop skelet element – made of [...] (glass) or [...] (limestone) fiber skeleton - made of [...] call [...] spong skeleton: micro/macroscop skelet element – made of silica (glass) or calcium carbon (limestone) fiber skeleton - made of protein collagen call spongin
is loofa a veget no! it a veget
describ the systemat of spong bodi plan (cells): collar cell (choanocytes) in spong resembl choanoflagel in structur and function. these are individu cell line with mesohyl. there are open call ostia where water pass through the spongocoel and out the osculum
[...] in spong resembl choanoflagel in structur and function. these are individu cell line with [...] . there are open call [...] where water pass through the [...] and out the [...] collar cell (choanocytes) in spong resembl choanoflagel in structur and function. these are individu cell line with mesohyl . there are open call ostia where water pass through the spongocoel and out the osculum
phylum porifera: spong filter water
phylum porifera: spong sexual _________ development, mean indirect - embryo develop like ani other animal, but into larva (line with cilia and is polarized)...
phylum porifera: spong do asexu develop by budding... break off to grow into new spong
freshwat spong (phylum porifera) can surviv winter
spong reef 
carnivor spong have temporari gut in each terminal... secondarili evolved. aren't filter
phylum porifera: spong - mobil more dynam than you think! cell are constat moving, migratori to the surfac / dividing. they inflat and deflat - releas "waste" / water (filtering)
phylum ctenophora: anim exampl comb jelli
phylum ctenophora: where do they live excus marin
phylum ctenophora: speci ~200 speci benthic : alway in sediment pelag : can be in water
benthic alway in rock or attach to someth
pelag can be in water column
phylum ctenophora: what do they eat eat planktons, but some are predatory.. they eat ctenophor too.
phylum ctenophora: are transpar and gelatin but aren't jellyfish!!!
phylum ctenophora: cell are... sticki cell (colloblasts) instead of sting cell (so not jellyfish)
phylum ctenophora: symmetri rotat
phylum ctenophora: digestive/gut complet gut (mouth and anus)
phylum ctenophora: movement swim use macrocilia organ into 8 comb row
phylum ctenophora: neuron have neuron but lack neurotransmitt gene
phylum ctenophora: muscl have muscl
phylum ctenophora: reproductoin sexual, indirect reproduct (larva stage)
phylum ctenophora: bodi axi oral / abor
phylum ctenophora: sensori cell statolith ocelli (for eye)
phylum ctenophora: uniqu cells/structur colloblast ctene - grove tentacl are full of sticki cell - to captur prey anal pore determin rotat symmetri comb row of cilia are bioluminesc (glow...)
colloblast in ctenophora vessicl fill with glue (sticky) when stimulized, it releas all the glue - this is how it attach itself to it prey
if ctenophor are sister of porifera that mean that porifera secondarili lost trait for neural and muscular system (controversy)
phylum placazoa: speci one describ speci (but there are more) trichoplax adhaeren
phylum placazoa: live in exclus marin
phylum placazoa: size ~1 mm in size
phylum placazoa: histori life histori incomplet known (none)
phylum placazoa: reproduct probabl sexual reproductive... definit asexu reproduct via fission ( spillit ; done in lab )
phylum placazoa: muscl none
phylum placazoa: nerv none
phylum placazoa: gut none
phylum placazoa: digest digest food extern like fungi. they releas enzym to eat surround food and through diffus (converg evolution)
phylum placazoa: movement ciliari locomot
phylum placazoa: cell type (#) 4-7
phylum placazoa: symmetri no symmetri
phylum placazoa: polar (in bodi plan) dorsal - ventral polar differ in what type of cell are to the dorsal and ventral side...
some cell in plocazoan have toxins.. mean that for it to produc toxin there is someth out there that is it predator.
phylum cnidaria: anim exampl anemon , coral, jelli fish
phylum cnidaria: live in most marine, some freshwat (some terrestrial!)
phylum cnidaria: speci (#) 10000 speci
phylum cnidaria: symmetri most radial symmetri
phylum cnidaria: gut incomplet gut (open for mouth/anus where food come in and out is the same)
phylum cnidaria: neuron yes
phylum cnidaria: muscl yes
phylum cnidaria: develop indirect sexual develop ... and asexu develop by bud (can cut and will regener like sea anemone)
phylum cnidaria: how do they captur their prey with sting cell aka cnidoct that contain nematocyst is trigger releas the sting
what are cnidocyt and nematocyst in cnidaria - "stinging" cells. cnidocyt are trigger releas the nematocyst (the sting)
phylum cnidaria: solitari or coloni both
phylum cnidaria: bodi axi oral and abor
phylum cnidaria: sensori structur statolith / ocelli
solitari cnidarians: explain the bodi structur polyp-- medusa have 2 germ tissu layer - dipoblast - no mesoderm; just the mesoglea fill with "jelly" made of carbohydr then their tentacl
how do medusa develop from a polyp (phylum cnidaria) fertil egg turn into larva then polyp; then an environment signal tell the polypto detach to becom a medusa
coloni cnidarian are made up of individu polip that secret calcium carbon skeleton to "fuse" togeth
phylum cnidaria: have sensori structur but... no brain; their eye are similar to our (ish)
cnidocyt phylum cnidaria: cell that are in tentacl contain the nematocyst that is stimul by trigger and caus discharg of poison
phylum cnidaria: cell that are in tentacl contain the nematocyst that is stimul by trigger and caus discharg of poison cnidocyt
except to bodi shape of cnidarian buddenbrockia (cnidarian worm) and myxozoan
buddenbrockia cnidarian worm
myxozoan anoth except to bodi shape of cnidarians. parasit intoads, earthworm , and fish
bilateria symmetri - "mirror image" symmetri with left and right side has been secondarili lost in some lineag (as organ ages)
phylum xenacoelomorpha: anim xenoturbella, nemertodermatida, acoela
phylum xenacoelomorpha: gut mouth anus incomplete, sac-lik gut mouth and no anus
phylum xenacoelomorpha: nerv no brain, nerv net except in acoel (longitudin nerv bundl and an apic nerv ring)
phylum xenacoelomorpha: sensori structur sensori structur are single-cel ocelli and statocyst (in some species) statocyst: an organ line with cell contain calcium carbonate. depend on the orient of the animal, the "rock" will go down or up. tell the anim it orient
statocyst a gravity-sensori organ line with cell contain calcium carbonate. depend on the orient of the animal, the "rock" will go down or up. tell the anim it orientation. in xenacoelomorpha
phylum xenacoelomorpha: respiratory, circulatory, excretori system none
phylum xenacoelomorpha: organ none except the statocyst
phylum xenacoelomorpha: develop direct development... no larva stage
phylum xenacoelomorpha: size/length 1mm-10 cm long
phylum xenacoelomorpha: benthic/meiofunal/plankton among each anim in this phylum xenturbella - benthic nermatodermatid - meiofaun acoel - meiofaunal, planktonic/benth (on other organisms)
phylum ecdysozoa: includ groups: arthropoda, priapulids, onychophorans, nemtoda, tardigrada,
phylum ecdysozoa is one of two major group of protostomes; blastospor develop into the mouth
phylum ecdysozoa: some phyla undergo ____ cleavag and exhibit _________ _____ ______ spiral clevage; determin cell fate
phylum arthropod of ecdysozoa is one of two major group that have been veri succes in _____ environ (the other..) terrestri ; amniot (amniot fluid)
[...]  oxygen in red blood cell hemoglobin  oxygen in red blood cell
the pressur in our lung is equal to atmospher pressur (t/f) true!
partial pressur of o2 in bronchial tree is lower than the pp of the air we breath in (t/f) tt
graham law state that rate of diffus of a molecul is invers proport to it [...] graham law state that rate of diffus of a molecul is invers proport to it molecular weight
[...] is area of the brain respons for itei of breath respiratori center is area of the brain respons for itei of breath
respiratori center receiv in about [...] from central chemoreceptor respiratori center receiv in about co2 and ph from central chemoreceptor
respiratori center receiv in about co2 and ph from [...] respiratori center receiv in about co2 and ph from central chemoreceptor
peripher chemoreceptor send info to respiratori center about [...] through the cranial nerv peripher chemoreceptor send info to respiratori center about o2 through the cranial nerv
[...] chemoreceptor send info to respiratori center about o2 through the cranial nerv peripher chemoreceptor send info to respiratori center about o2 through the cranial nerv
peripher chemoreceptor send info to [...] about o2 through the cranial nerv peripher chemoreceptor send info to respiratori center about o2 through the cranial nerv
peripher chemoreceptor send info to respiratori center about o2 through the [...] nerv peripher chemoreceptor send info to respiratori center about o2 through the cranial nerv
mechanoreceptor send info about [...] to respiratori center via the cranial nerv mechanoreceptor send info about pressur to respiratori center via the cranial nerv
[...] send info about pressur to respiratori center via the cranial nerv mechanoreceptor send info about pressur to respiratori center via the cranial nerv
mechanoreceptor send info about pressur to respiratori center via the [...] nerv mechanoreceptor send info about pressur to respiratori center via the cranial nerv
[...] send info about anxiety, fear, pain to respiratori center hypothalamus send info about anxiety, fear, pain to respiratori center
hypothalamus send info about [...] to respiratori center hypothalamus send info about anxiety, fear, pain to respiratori center
[...] send messag about voluntari control to respiratori center cerebrum send messag about voluntari control to respiratori center
cerebrum send messag about [...] to respiratori center cerebrum send messag about voluntari control to respiratori center
motor nerv [...] control the diaphragm muscl to effect our breath motor nerv c3-c5 control the diaphragm muscl to effect our breath
motor nerv c3-c5 control the [...] muscl to effect our breath motor nerv c3-c5 control the diaphragm muscl to effect our breath
motor nerv [...] control the intercost muscl between our rib to help our breath motor nerv t1-t11 control the intercost muscl between our rib to help our breath
motor nerv t1-t11 control the [...] muscl between our rib to help our breath motor nerv t1-t11 control the intercost muscl between our rib to help our breath
motor nerv [...] control the abdomin muscl to help our breath motor nerv t6-l11 control the abdomin muscl to help our breath
motor nerv t6-l11 control the [...] muscl to help our breath motor nerv t6-l11 control the abdomin muscl to help our breath
motor nerv [...] control the acessori muscl to help pull out rib cage and expand lung to help our breath motor nerv c1-c3 control the acessori muscl to help pull out rib cage and expand lung to help our breath
motor nerv c1-c3 control the [...] muscl to help pull out rib cage and expand lung to help our breath motor nerv c1-c3 control the acessori muscl to help pull out rib cage and expand lung to help our breath
motor nerv involv in our breath receiv their input from the [...] motor nerv involv in our breath receiv their input from the respiratori center
[...] involv in our breath receiv their input from the respiratori center motor nerv involv in our breath receiv their input from the respiratori center
lung can get rid of extra heat in our bodi through [...] lung can get rid of extra heat in our bodi through thermoregul
[...] can get rid of extra heat in our bodi through thermoregul lung can get rid of extra heat in our bodi through thermoregul
liver split up into unit call hepat lobul that contain 6 unit of [...] that surround hepatocytes, or liver cell liver split up into unit call hepat lobul that contain 6 unit of portal triad that surround hepatocytes, or liver cell
human have endo skeleton compar to arthropod which have [...] skeleton human have endo skeleton compar to arthropod which have exo skeleton
human have [...] skeleton compar to arthropod which have exo skeleton human have endo skeleton compar to arthropod which have exo skeleton
skeleton 4 functions: 1)support movement 2) protect organ 3)storag of calcium 4) hematopoiesi
the process of creat new blood cell hematopoiesi
hematopoiesi happen where in bone marrow
skull and rib cage  [...] skeleton skull and rib cage  axial skeleton
bone of limb and pelvi  [...] skelton bone of limb and pelvi  appendicular skelton
these bones: skulls, rib and pelvi are [...] bone that serv to protect organ and aid hematopoeisi these bones: skulls, rib and pelvi are flat bone that serv to protect organ and aid hematopoeisi
these bones: skulls, rib and pelvi are flat bone that serv to [...] and aid hematopoeisi these bones: skulls, rib and pelvi are flat bone that serv to protect organ and aid hematopoeisi
these bones: skulls, rib and pelvi are flat bone that serv to protect organ and aid [...] these bones: skulls, rib and pelvi are flat bone that serv to protect organ and aid hematopoeisi
these bones: [...] are flat bone that serv to protect organ and aid hematopoeisi these bones: skulls, rib and pelvi are flat bone that serv to protect organ and aid hematopoeisi
long bone have a long middl portion call the diaphysi
the end of long bone are call epiphysi
in between the diaphysi and epiphysi is the ___ which contain the growth plate (for growthi stuff) metaphysi
long bone function includ provid a ___ for the bodi and, similar to the flat bones, aid in _____ framework, hematopoeisi
___ bone marrow serv as main site of hematopoeisi red
yellow bone marrow serv to store fat and is found in the [...] of long bone yellow bone marrow serv to store fat and is found in the diaphysi of long bone
yellow bone marrow serv to store fat and is found in the diaphysi of [...] bone yellow bone marrow serv to store fat and is found in the diaphysi of long bone
[...] bone marrow serv to store fat and is found in the diaphysi of long bone yellow bone marrow serv to store fat and is found in the diaphysi of long bone
yellow bone marrow serv to store [...] and is found in the diaphysi of long bone yellow bone marrow serv to store fat and is found in the diaphysi of long bone
[...] tissu  the hard exterior of bone while cancel bone or trabecular bone tissu  the spongi insid cortic bone tissu  the hard exterior of bone while cancel bone or trabecular bone tissu  the spongi insid
trabecular/cancel bone consist of an irregular latic of thin column of bone call [...] trabecular/cancel bone consist of an irregular latic of thin column of bone call tribecula
the basic unit of compact bone is the [...] aka the osteon the basic unit of compact bone is the haversian system aka the osteon
osteoblast are secret in ring call [...] that expand outward as trabecula get larger osteoblast are secret in ring call lamella that expand outward as trabecula get larger
in the center of the osteon is the [...] which has blood vessels, lymph vessel and nerv travel through it in the center of the osteon is the haversian canal which has blood vessels, lymph vessel and nerv travel through it
in the center of the osteon is the haversian canal which has [...] , lymph vessel and nerv travel through it in the center of the osteon is the haversian canal which has blood vessel , lymph vessel and nerv travel through it
in the center of the osteon is the haversian canal which has blood vessels, [...] and nerv travel through it in the center of the osteon is the haversian canal which has blood vessels, lymph vessel and nerv travel through it
in the center of the osteon is the haversian canal which has blood vessels, lymph vessel and [...] travel through it in the center of the osteon is the haversian canal which has blood vessels, lymph vessel and nerv travel through it
in between sheet of lamilla are channel branch out from haversian canal call [...] to empti space call lacuna in between sheet of lamilla are channel branch out from haversian canal call canaliculi to empti space call lacuna
in between sheet of lamilla are channel branch out from haversian canal call canaliculi to empti space call [...] in between sheet of lamilla are channel branch out from haversian canal call canaliculi to empti space call lacuna
[...] run perpindicular to haversian canal and connect osteon to one anoth volkman canal run perpindicular to haversian canal and connect osteon to one anoth
outermost layer of bone is call [...] outermost layer of bone is call periosteum
[...] , secret by osteoblast  the organ portion of the bone matrix and is calcifi within a few day osteoid , secret by osteoblast  the organ portion of the bone matrix and is calcifi within a few day
[...] make up the inorgan portion of the bone matrix hydroxylapatit make up the inorgan portion of the bone matrix
osteoid, the unminer organ portion of the bone matrix, consist of a high order structur of protein osteocalcin and [...] and type i collagen which help to give bone it tensil strength osteoid, the unminer organ portion of the bone matrix, consist of a high order structur of protein osteocalcin and osteopontin and type i collagen which help to give bone it tensil strength
[...] , the unminer organ portion of the bone matrix, consist of a high order structur of protein osteocalcin and osteopontin and type i collagen which help to give bone it tensil strength osteoid , the unminer organ portion of the bone matrix, consist of a high order structur of protein osteocalcin and osteopontin and type i collagen which help to give bone it tensil strength
two compon of bone matrix: the organ osteoid and the inorgan [...] two compon of bone matrix: the organ osteoid and the inorgan hydroxylapatit
two compon of bone matrix: the organ [...] and the inorgan hydroxylapatit two compon of bone matrix: the organ osteoid and the inorgan hydroxylapatit
the inorgan portion of our bones, hydroxylapatite, consist of [...] that give the bone it rigid strength and densiti the inorgan portion of our bones, hydroxylapatite, consist of calcium phosphat crystal that give the bone it rigid strength and densiti
the inorgan portion of our bones, hydroxylapatite, consist of calcium phosphat crystal that give the bone it [...] and densiti the inorgan portion of our bones, hydroxylapatite, consist of calcium phosphat crystal that give the bone it rigid strength and densiti
the inorgan portion of our bones, hydroxylapatite, consist of calcium phosphat crystal that give the bone it rigid strength and [...] the inorgan portion of our bones, hydroxylapatite, consist of calcium phosphat crystal that give the bone it rigid strength and densiti
four cell type in bone: osteoprogenitor, osteoblasts, osteocytes, osteclast
[...] are the precursor of osteblast osteoprogenitor are the precursor of osteblast
[...] synthes the organ and inorgan portion of the bone matrix osteoblast synthes the organ and inorgan portion of the bone matrix
the matur version of the osteoblast, onc it is trap in the bone matrix it secretes: [...] the matur version of the osteoblast, onc it is trap in the bone matrix it secretes: osteocyt
osteocyt occupi [...] and are respons for communic between bone cell osteocyt occupi laccuna and are respons for communic between bone cell
[...] are deriv from monocyt and are responsbil for bone resorpt (breakdown) use the enzym tartrat resist acid phosphatas osteoclast are deriv from monocyt and are responsbil for bone resorpt (breakdown) use the enzym tartrat resist acid phosphatas
osteoblast build the inorgan portion of the bone matrix with the enzyme: [...] osteoblast build the inorgan portion of the bone matrix with the enzyme: alkalin phosphatas
osteoclast are deriv from monocyt and are responsbil for bone resorpt (breakdown) use the enzym [...] osteoclast are deriv from monocyt and are responsbil for bone resorpt (breakdown) use the enzym tartrat resist acid phosphatas
osteoclast occupi [...] (hole in bone  as they break down the bone around them) osteoclast occupi howship laccuna (hole in bone  as they break down the bone around them)
increas in osteoclast  lead to an increas in [...] concentr in the blood increas in osteoclast  lead to an increas in calcium and phosphat concentr in the blood
[...] and cacitriol increas the amount of calcium and phosphat in the blood and decreas the amount of calcium and phosphat in the bone parathyroid hormon (pth) and cacitriol increas the amount of calcium and phosphat in the blood and decreas the amount of calcium and phosphat in the bone
parathyroid hormon (pth) and [...] increas the amount of calcium and phosphat in the blood and decreas the amount of calcium and phosphat in the bone parathyroid hormon (pth) and cacitriol increas the amount of calcium and phosphat in the blood and decreas the amount of calcium and phosphat in the bone
[...] decreas the amount of calcium and phosphat in the blood, by increas osteoblast  or decreas osteoclast  calcitonin decreas the amount of calcium and phosphat in the blood, by increas osteoblast  or decreas osteoclast 
calcitonin (inc or dec) osteoblast  and (inc or dec) osteoclast ity, (inc or dec) calcium in the blood inc, dec, dec
too much____ in the blood lead to hyperexcit cell membran which lead to lethargi fatigu andn memori loss calcium
chondrocyt secret [...] and elastin that make up cartilag chondrocyt secret collagen and elastin that make up cartilag
chondrocyt secret collagen and [...] that make up cartilag chondrocyt secret collagen and elastin that make up cartilag
[...] secret collagen and elastin that make up cartilag chondrocyt secret collagen and elastin that make up cartilag
chondrocyt secret collagen and elastin that make up [...] chondrocyt secret collagen and elastin that make up cartilag
[...] is a connect tissu made of collagen and elastin which provid strength and elast cartilag is a connect tissu made of collagen and elastin which provid strength and elast
cartilag receiv nutrit from blood vessel (t/f) false, it receiv nutrit from fluid surround it
[...] cartilag reduc friction and absorb shock and is found in the larynx, trachea and joint hyaline/articular cartilag reduc friction and absorb shock and is found in the larynx, trachea and joint
[...] cartilag is found in the outer ear and epiglotti and provid shape and support elast cartilag is found in the outer ear and epiglotti and provid shape and support
elast cartilag is found in the [...] and provid shape and support elast cartilag is found in the outer ear and epiglotti and provid shape and support
elast cartilag is found in the outer ear and epiglotti and provid [...] elast cartilag is found in the outer ear and epiglotti and provid shape and support
[...] cartilag is found in the intervetebr disk and serv to provid rigid and absorb shock fibrous cartilag is found in the intervetebr disk and serv to provid rigid and absorb shock
[...] are tough band of fibrous connect tissue, made up of collagen, connect muscl to bone tendon are tough band of fibrous connect tissue, made up of collagen, connect muscl to bone
immov joint where two bone are fuse together, as in the skull synarthros
slight movabl joints, such as in vertebr joint amphiarthros
ball and socket joints, hing joints, aka synovi joint
surfac of bone that meet up in joint are line by special cartilag call articular cartilag (hyalin cartilage)
inflamm of joint arthriti
the inorgan portion of our bones, [...] , consist of calcium phosphat crystal that give the bone it rigid strength and densiti the inorgan portion of our bones, hydroxylapatit , consist of calcium phosphat crystal that give the bone it rigid strength and densiti
osteoid, the unminer organ portion of the bone matrix, consist of a high order structur of protein [...] and osteopontin and type i collagen which help to give bone it tensil strength osteoid, the unminer organ portion of the bone matrix, consist of a high order structur of protein osteocalcin and osteopontin and type i collagen which help to give bone it tensil strength
[...] is the flexibl tissu in the interior of bone bone marrow is the flexibl tissu in the interior of bone
osteoid, the unminer organ portion of the bone matrix, consist of a high order structur of protein osteocalcin and osteopontin and [...] which help to give bone it tensil strength osteoid, the unminer organ portion of the bone matrix, consist of a high order structur of protein osteocalcin and osteopontin and type i collagen which help to give bone it tensil strength
cortic bone tissu  the hard exterior of bone while [...] or trabecular bone tissu  the spongi insid cortic bone tissu  the hard exterior of bone while cancel bone or trabecular bone tissu  the spongi insid
cortic bone tissu  the hard exterior of bone while cancel bone or [...] tissu  the spongi insid cortic bone tissu  the hard exterior of bone while cancel bone or trabecular bone tissu  the spongi insid
[...] bone consist of an irregular latic of thin column of bone call tribecula trabecular/cancel bone consist of an irregular latic of thin column of bone call tribecula
the basic unit of [...] is the haversian system aka the osteon the basic unit of compact bone is the haversian system aka the osteon
the basic unit of compact bone is the haversian system aka the [...] the basic unit of compact bone is the haversian system aka the osteon
the main structur protein in the extracellular space in the various connect tissu in anim bodi collagen
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
[...] cells, line the distal convolut tubule, sens low [...] , releas [...] , which stimul the juxtaglomerular cell to releas renin macula densa cells, line the distal convolut tubule, sens low na+ , releas prostaglandin , which stimul the juxtaglomerular cell to releas renin
macula densa cells, line the [...] , sens low na+, releas prostaglandin, which stimul the [...] to releas [...] macula densa cells, line the distal convolut tubul , sens low na+, releas prostaglandin, which stimul the juxtaglomerular cell to releas renin
  
  
  
  
aldosteron drive k+ into the princip cell surround the collect ducts, na+ into the peritubular capillaries, by ad protein channel into the distal convolut tubul and collect duct and drive the [...] pump harder aldosteron drive k+ into the princip cell surround the collect ducts, na+ into the peritubular capillaries, by ad protein channel into the distal convolut tubul and collect duct and drive the na/k pump harder
  
[...] drive k+ into the princip cell surround the collect ducts, na+ into the peritubular capillaries, by ad protein [...] into the distal convolut tubul and collect duct and drive the na/k pump harder aldosteron drive k+ into the princip cell surround the collect ducts, na+ into the peritubular capillaries, by ad protein channel into the distal convolut tubul and collect duct and drive the na/k pump harder
aldosteron drive [...] into the princip cell surround the collect ducts, [...] into the peritubular capillaries, by ad protein channel into the distal convolut tubul and collect duct and drive the na/k pump harder aldosteron drive k+ into the princip cell surround the collect ducts, na+ into the peritubular capillaries, by ad protein channel into the distal convolut tubul and collect duct and drive the na/k pump harder
aldosteron drive k+ into the [...] surround the collect ducts, na+ into the [...] , by ad protein channel into the distal convolut tubul and collect duct and drive the na/k pump harder aldosteron drive k+ into the princip cell surround the collect ducts, na+ into the peritubular capillari , by ad protein channel into the distal convolut tubul and collect duct and drive the na/k pump harder
  
  
  
  
fick law describ [...] fick law describ the rate at which a dissolv gas diffus across a membran given certain proporti of the membran and gas.
what the ula for fick law as it relat to lung [...] what the ula for fick law as it relat to lung
fick law take into account that the diffus of a gas across a [...] depend on the uniqu chemic properti of the membran and the gas and how they interact. for example, the chemic hydrophob of the gas and membran are import variabl in determin how permeabl the membran will be to the gas. these consider are generic packag into the "d" variabl which is typic determin empirically. whatev the particular chemic natur of the gas and membrane, fick law state the intuit intellig notion that the rate of gasvdiffus is proport to the avail surfac area (a) while invers proport to the thick of the membran (t). the actual physic factor that actuat unidirect diffus of gas across a membran is the differ in partial pressur of the gas across the membran and this is captur in the δp variable; consequently, the diffus rate is proport to the size of the partial pressur gradient. although the variabl of d, a, and t may be easili determin in control experiment settings, they are virtual imposs to mathemat determin for ani individu lung. consequently, the physiolog variabl of diffus capac has been develop to combin these immeasur factors. fick law take into account that the diffus of a gas across a membran depend on the uniqu chemic properti of the membran and the gas and how they interact. for example, the chemic hydrophob of the gas and membran are import variabl in determin how permeabl the membran will be to the gas. these consider are generic packag into the "d" variabl which is typic determin empirically. whatev the particular chemic natur of the gas and membrane, fick law state the intuit intellig notion that the rate of gasvdiffus is proport to the avail surfac area (a) while invers proport to the thick of the membran (t). the actual physic factor that actuat unidirect diffus of gas across a membran is the differ in partial pressur of the gas across the membran and this is captur in the δp variable; consequently, the diffus rate is proport to the size of the partial pressur gradient. although the variabl of d, a, and t may be easili determin in control experiment settings, they are virtual imposs to mathemat determin for ani individu lung. consequently, the physiolog variabl of diffus capac has been develop to combin these immeasur factors.
fick law take into account that the diffus of a gas across a membran depend on the uniqu chemic properti of the membran and the gas and how they interact. for example, the chemic hydrophob of the gas and membran are import variabl in determin how permeabl the membran will be to the gas. these consider are generic packag into the "d" variabl which is typic determin empirically. whatev the particular chemic natur of the gas and membrane, fick law state the intuit intellig notion that the rate of gasvdiffus is [...] to the avail surfac area (a) while [...] to the thick of the membran (t). the actual physic factor that actuat unidirect diffus of gas across a membran is the differ in partial pressur of the gas across the membran and this is captur in the δp variable; consequently, the diffus rate is proport to the size of the partial pressur gradient. although the variabl of d, a, and t may be easili determin in control experiment settings, they are virtual imposs to mathemat determin for ani individu lung. consequently, the physiolog variabl of diffus capac has been develop to combin these immeasur factors. fick law take into account that the diffus of a gas across a membran depend on the uniqu chemic properti of the membran and the gas and how they interact. for example, the chemic hydrophob of the gas and membran are import variabl in determin how permeabl the membran will be to the gas. these consider are generic packag into the "d" variabl which is typic determin empirically. whatev the particular chemic natur of the gas and membrane, fick law state the intuit intellig notion that the rate of gasvdiffus is proport to the avail surfac area (a) while invers proport to the thick of the membran (t). the actual physic factor that actuat unidirect diffus of gas across a membran is the differ in partial pressur of the gas across the membran and this is captur in the δp variable; consequently, the diffus rate is proport to the size of the partial pressur gradient. although the variabl of d, a, and t may be easili determin in control experiment settings, they are virtual imposs to mathemat determin for ani individu lung. consequently, the physiolog variabl of diffus capac has been develop to combin these immeasur factors.
fick law take into account that the diffus of a gas across a membran depend on the uniqu chemic properti of the membran and the gas and how they interact. for example, the chemic hydrophob of the gas and membran are import variabl in determin how permeabl the membran will be to the gas. these consider are generic packag into the "d" variabl which is typic determin empirically. whatev the particular chemic natur of the gas and membrane, fick law state the intuit intellig notion that the rate of gasvdiffus is proport to the avail surfac area (a) while invers proport to the thick of the membran (t). the actual physic factor that actuat unidirect diffus of gas across a membran is the differ in [...] of the gas across the membran and this is captur in the δp variable; consequently, the diffus rate is proport to the size of the partial pressur gradient. although the variabl of d, a, and t may be easili determin in control experiment settings, they are virtual imposs to mathemat determin for ani individu lung. consequently, the physiolog variabl of diffus capac has been develop to combin these immeasur factors. fick law take into account that the diffus of a gas across a membran depend on the uniqu chemic properti of the membran and the gas and how they interact. for example, the chemic hydrophob of the gas and membran are import variabl in determin how permeabl the membran will be to the gas. these consider are generic packag into the "d" variabl which is typic determin empirically. whatev the particular chemic natur of the gas and membrane, fick law state the intuit intellig notion that the rate of gasvdiffus is proport to the avail surfac area (a) while invers proport to the thick of the membran (t). the actual physic factor that actuat unidirect diffus of gas across a membran is the differ in partial pressur of the gas across the membran and this is captur in the δp variable; consequently, the diffus rate is proport to the size of the partial pressur gradient. although the variabl of d, a, and t may be easili determin in control experiment settings, they are virtual imposs to mathemat determin for ani individu lung. consequently, the physiolog variabl of diffus capac has been develop to combin these immeasur factors.
fick law take into account that the diffus of a gas across a membran depend on the uniqu chemic properti of the membran and the gas and how they interact. for example, the chemic hydrophob of the gas and membran are import variabl in determin how permeabl the membran will be to the gas. these consider are generic packag into the "d" variabl which is typic determin empirically. whatev the particular chemic natur of the gas and membrane, fick law state the intuit intellig notion that the rate of gasvdiffus is proport to the avail surfac area (a) while invers proport to the thick of the membran (t). the actual physic factor that actuat unidirect diffus of gas across a membran is the differ in partial pressur of the gas across the membran and this is captur in the [...] variable; consequently, the diffus rate is proport to the size of the partial pressur gradient. although the variabl of d, a, and t may be easili determin in control experiment settings, they are virtual imposs to mathemat determin for ani individu lung. consequently, the physiolog variabl of diffus capac has been develop to combin these immeasur factors. fick law take into account that the diffus of a gas across a membran depend on the uniqu chemic properti of the membran and the gas and how they interact. for example, the chemic hydrophob of the gas and membran are import variabl in determin how permeabl the membran will be to the gas. these consider are generic packag into the "d" variabl which is typic determin empirically. whatev the particular chemic natur of the gas and membrane, fick law state the intuit intellig notion that the rate of gasvdiffus is proport to the avail surfac area (a) while invers proport to the thick of the membran (t). the actual physic factor that actuat unidirect diffus of gas across a membran is the differ in partial pressur of the gas across the membran and this is captur in the δp variable; consequently, the diffus rate is proport to the size of the partial pressur gradient. although the variabl of d, a, and t may be easili determin in control experiment settings, they are virtual imposs to mathemat determin for ani individu lung. consequently, the physiolog variabl of diffus capac has been develop to combin these immeasur factors.
three layer of skin from inner to outer are [...] three layer of skin from inner to outer are hypodermis, dermis, epidermi
  
  
the deepest layer of the epidermis, the [...] is respons for prolifer of [...] , which move through the layer of the epidermi and produc [...] which make up hair and nail. [...] which produc [...] which determin skin color are also found here the deepest layer of the epidermis, the stratum basala is respons for prolifer of keratinocyt , which move through the layer of the epidermi and produc keratin which make up hair and nail. melanocyt which produc melanin which determin skin color are also found here
the layer of the epidermi from intern - outer stratum basale- stratum spinosum- stratum granulosum- stratum lucidum- stratum corneum
begin in the [...] the keratinocyt are dead as they have lost their nuclei. in the [...] we have multipl layer of dead keratinocytes. begin in the stratum lucidum the keratinocyt are dead as they have lost their nuclei. in the strata corneum we have multipl layer of dead keratinocytes.
  
[...] cell are special macrophag that resid within the stratum spinosum. langerhan cell are special macrophag that resid within the stratum spinosum.
langerhan cell are special [...] that resid within the stratum spinosum. langerhan cell are special macrophag that resid within the stratum spinosum.
langerhan cell are special macrophag that resid within the [...] langerhan cell are special macrophag that resid within the stratum spinosum.
the two layer of dermi (from outside- inside) : [...] layer the two layer of dermi (from outside- inside) : papillari and reticular layer
  
sweat glands, blood vessel and hair follicl origini in the [...] sweat glands, blood vessel and hair follicl origini in the dermi
merkel cell (discs) are sensori recpetor present at the epidermal-derm junction and sens [...] . merkel cell (discs) are sensori recpetor present at the epidermal-derm junction and sens deep pressur and textur sensat .
[...] are sensori recpetor present at the epidermal-derm junction and sens deep pressur and textur sensation. merkel cell (discs) are sensori recpetor present at the epidermal-derm junction and sens deep pressur and textur sensation.
[...] respond to light touch meissner corpuscl respond to light touch
meissner corpuscl respond to [...] meissner corpuscl respond to light touch
[...] connect skin to rest of body. contain fat and fibrous tissu hypodermi connect skin to rest of body. contain fat and fibrous tissu
[...] is a cool mchanism control by the [...] that work throuogh evapor of water from the skin. [...] maxim heat loss by bring a larg quantiti of blood to the skin which accceleart the evapor of sweat. sweat is a cool mchanism control by the autonom nervous system that work throuogh evapor of water from the skin. arteriolar vasodil maxim heat loss by bring a larg quantiti of blood to the skin which accceleart the evapor of sweat.
in the cold [...] muscl contract caus hair to stand up ( [...] ). [...] may also contract use a larg amount of [...] to generat thermal energi in the cold arrector pili muscl contract caus hair to stand up ( piloerect ). skelet muscl may also contract use a larg amount of atp to generat thermal energi
as [...] move along [...] in muscles, chemic energi (atp) is convert to mechan energi as myosin move along actin in muscles, chemic energi (atp) is convert to mechan energi
  
in skelet muscles, calcium  to [...] trigger a con chang in tropomyosin to uncov [...] so myosin head can  in skelet muscles, calcium  to troponin trigger a con chang in tropomyosin to uncov actin so myosin head can 
  
  
  
outer layer of connect tissu on top of muscl is the [...] . underneath is the [...] . underneath that is the [...] . underneath is the muscl cell or [...] . outer layer of connect tissu on top of muscl is the epimysium . underneath is the perimysium . underneath that is the endomysium . underneath is the muscl cell or myofib .
  
  
  
muscl cell or myofib are tubular cell that have multipl [...] that sit on outskirt of [...] . muscl cell or myofib are tubular cell that have multipl nuclei that sit on outskirt of sarcolemma .
  
  
[...] tube store myosin and actin in a myofib or muscl cell myofibril tube store myosin and actin in a myofib or muscl cell
myofibril tube store [...] in a myofib or muscl cell myofibril tube store myosin and actin in a myofib or muscl cell
myofibril tube store myosin and actin in a [...] or muscl cell myofibril tube store myosin and actin in a myofib or muscl cell
a structur unit of a myofibril in striat muscl [...] . it is bound by two [...] a structur unit of a myofibril in striat muscl sarcomer . it is bound by two z line
  
skelet muscl can be attach to tendon or to [...] (flat tendons) skelet muscl can be attach to tendon or to aponeurosi (flat tendons)
skelet muscl can be attach to [...] or to aponeurosi (flat tendons) skelet muscl can be attach to tendon or to aponeurosi (flat tendons)
[...] muscl is in the wall of blood vessel and hollow organ smooth muscl is in the wall of blood vessel and hollow organ
skelet muscl are under [...] control wherea cardiac and smooth muscl are under [...] control skelet muscl are under voluntari control wherea cardiac and smooth muscl are under involuntari control
[...] muscl is striat cardiac and skelet muscl is striat
[...] attach to [...] channel (nicotin acetylcholin receptors) in muscl cell which stimul their opening,  in a chang in the [...] , which induc the [...] to releas [...] acetylcholin attach to calcium and sodium channel (nicotin acetylcholin receptors) in muscl cell which stimul their opening,  in a chang in the membran potenti , which induc the sarcoplasm reticulum to releas ca++
  
muscl cell are connect through [...] , which allow flow of ion between cells, which allow muscl to contract togeth when na/ca enter the cell. this is call [...] muscl cell are connect through gap junction , which allow flow of ion between cells, which allow muscl to contract togeth when na/ca enter the cell. this is call muscl syncytium
  
[...] anchor myosin to z-disk titin anchor myosin to z-disk
titin anchor [...] to z-disk titin anchor myosin to z-disk
titin anchor myosin to [...] titin anchor myosin to z-disk
two method to increas inotropi (amount of myosin work on actin): increas [...] or increas [...] two method to increas inotropi (amount of myosin work on actin): increas ca++ or increas troponin sensitit to ca++
two method to increas [...] (amount of myosin work on actin): increas ca++ or increas troponin sensitit to ca++ two method to increas inotropi (amount of myosin work on actin): increas ca++ or increas troponin sensitit to ca++
involuntari control is mediat by the [...] that sit besid the spinal cord involuntari control is mediat by the brainstem and sympathet ganglia that sit besid the spinal cord
  
voluntari muscular control is coordin by the [...] voluntari muscular control is coordin by the cerebr cortex and the spinal cord
the somat nervous system and the sympathet nervous system use the neurotransmitt [...] , while the parasympathet nervous system use [...] the somat nervous system and the sympathet nervous system use the neurotransmitt acetylcholin , while the parasympathet nervous system use norepinephrin
the [...] use the neurotransmitt acetylcholine, while the [...] nervous system use norepinephrin the somat nervous system and the sympathet nervous system use the neurotransmitt acetylcholine, while the parasympathet nervous system use norepinephrin
the anterior hypothalamus recogn that it [...] while the posterior recogn that it [...] the anterior hypothalamus recogn that it hot while the posterior recogn that it cold
the [...] hypothalamus recogn that it hot while the [...] recogn that it cold the anterior hypothalamus recogn that it hot while the posterior recogn that it cold
when we want to releas heat our smooth muscl [...] which allow for [...] when we want to releas heat our smooth muscl relax which allow for vasodil
when we are cold our smooth muscl [...] which allow for [...] (less heat lost through blood in peripheri of our body) when we are cold our smooth muscl contract which allow for vasoconstrict (less heat lost through blood in peripheri of our body)
the a-band of a sarcomer has both myosin and actin and goe for the length of the [...] the a-band of a sarcomer has both myosin and actin and goe for the length of the myosin
  
  
  
bile path from liver to duodenum: liver- common hepat duct- cystic duct- gall bladder - cystic duct - common bile duct- duodenum
  
  
portal triad includ the [...] portal triad includ the portal vein, hepat artery, hepat duct
  
larg intestin sections: begin with [...] , and it appendage, the [...] , the [...] , the [...] , [...] , [...] larg intestin sections: begin with cecum , and it appendage, the appendix , the ascend colon , the transvers colon , descend colon , sigmoid colon
  
  
  
  
  
  
[...] convert angiotensin, releas by the [...] , to angiotensin i. ace (angiotensin convert enzyme) hydrolyz [...] to  [...] . angiotensin ii [...] blood pressur by [...] , [...] , and [...] renin convert angiotensin, releas by the liver , to angiotensin i. ace (angiotensin convert enzyme) hydrolyz angiotensinogen i to  angiotensin ii (e) . angiotensin ii rais blood pressur by constrict blood vessel , trigger adren cortex releas of aldosteron , and trigger posterior pituitari releas of vasopressin
renin convert [...] , releas by the liver, to [...] . [...] hydrolyz angiotensinogen i to  angiotensin ii (e). [...] rais blood pressur by constrict blood vessels, trigger adren cortex releas of aldosterone, and trigger posterior pituitari releas of vasopressin renin convert angiotensin , releas by the liver, to angiotensin i . ace (angiotensin convert enzyme) hydrolyz angiotensinogen i to  angiotensin ii (e). angiotensin ii rais blood pressur by constrict blood vessels, trigger adren cortex releas of aldosterone, and trigger posterior pituitari releas of vasopressin
[...] repsond to strech ruffini end repsond to strech
ruffini end repsond to [...] ruffini end repsond to strech
[...] respond to deep pressur and vibrat pacinian corpuscl respond to deep pressur and vibrat
pacinian corpuscl respond to [...] pacinian corpuscl respond to deep pressur and vibrat
[...] locat in the brush border break down nucleotid to nucleosid by remov the [...] nucleosidas locat in the brush border break down nucleotid to nucleosid by remov the base
nucleosidas locat in the [...] break down nucleotid to nucleosid by remov the base nucleosidas locat in the brush border break down nucleotid to nucleosid by remov the base
what is the gram stain of corynebacterium [...] what is the gram stain of corynebacterium posit
which special cultur media/agar is use to isol corynebacterium diphtheria [...] which special cultur media/agar is use to isol corynebacterium diphtheria tellurit agar; loffler medium
[...] is an exotoxin from corynebacterium diphtheria that in elong factor 2 (ef2), therebi inhibit protein synthesis. diphtheria toxin is an exotoxin from corynebacterium diphtheria that in elong factor 2 (ef2), therebi inhibit protein synthesis.
what is the moa of diphtheria toxin from corynebacterium diphtheria [...] what is the moa of diphtheria toxin from corynebacterium diphtheria in of elong factor 2 (ef2) via adp ribosyl , therebi inhibit protein synthesi
[...] is an exotoxin from corynebacterium diphtheria that caus pharyng with pseudomembran in the throat and sever lymphadenopathi ("bull neck"). diptheria toxin is an exotoxin from corynebacterium diphtheria that caus pharyng with pseudomembran in the throat and sever lymphadenopathi ("bull neck").
which gram-posit bacteria caus diphtheria through a potent extoxin that inhibit protein synthesi via adp ribosyl of ef-2 [...] which gram-posit bacteria caus diphtheria through a potent extoxin that inhibit protein synthesi via adp ribosyl of ef-2 corynebactrium diphtheria the toxin is encod by a beta-prophage. toxoid vaccin can prevent diphtheria.
[...] is a gram-positive, club shape bacteria that yield black coloni on cystine-tellurit agar. corynebacterium spp. is a gram-positive, club shape bacteria that yield black coloni on cystine-tellurit agar. it also has metachromat (blue and red) granul and a posit elek test for the toxin.
[...] is a bacteria that affect unimmun children and caus a pharyng that present wth a grayish oropharyng exud that  " pseudomembran ". corynebacterium diphtheria is a bacteria that affect unimmun children and caus a pharyng that present wth a grayish oropharyng exud that  " pseudomembran ". the pseudomembran may obstruct the airway. they also caus throat pain.
what is the classic treatment of: staphylococcus aureus mssa: nafcillin, oxacillin, dicloxacillin (antistaphylococc penicillins); mrsa: vancomycin
what is the most common/ import associ of: food poison (exotoxin mediated) (2) s. aureus, b. cereus
what is the most common/ import associ of: infect in chronic granulomat diseas staphylococcus aureus, e. coli, aspergillus (catalas posit ive)
what is the most common/ import associ of: osteomyel with iv drug use (3) pseudomonas, s. aureus, candida sp.
the endocard seen in iv drug user is often due to infect of the heart valv by the bacteria [...] . the endocard seen in iv drug user is often due to infect of the heart valv by the bacteria staphylococcus aureus .
[...] is the drug of choic for veri sever s. aureus infect such as endocarditis, cellul and sepsis. nafcillin is the drug of choic for veri sever s. aureus infect such as endocarditis, cellul and sepsis.
what bacteri speci is the most common caus of osteomyel [...] what bacteri speci is the most common caus of osteomyel staphylococcus aureus
staphylococcus aureus is a high virul organ that caus [...] endocarditis. staphylococcus aureus is a high virul organ that caus acut endocarditis.
what antibiot combin is use to treat staphylococcus aureus endocard [...] what antibiot combin is use to treat staphylococcus aureus endocard beta-lactam + gentamycin
what is the 2nd most common caus of secondari pneumonia [...] what is the 2nd most common caus of secondari pneumonia staphylococcus aureus
what kind of pneumonia doe staphylococcus aureus caus [...] what kind of pneumonia doe staphylococcus aureus caus bronchopneumonia
in rare cases, the skin and nare of diabet can becom infect with [...] , a normal flora that live in these areas. in rare cases, the skin and nare of diabet can becom infect with staphylococcus aureus , a normal flora that live in these areas.
which bacteria common caus furunculosi in diabet [...] which bacteria common caus furunculosi in diabet staphylococcus aureus
[...] is a gram posit cocci that can caus styes, an infect of the follicl or gland of the upper eyelid. staphylococcus aureus is a gram posit cocci that can caus styes, an infect of the follicl or gland of the upper eyelid.
what is the most common caus of acut mastiti [...] what is the most common caus of acut mastiti staphylococcus aureus
which protein are mutat in methicillin-resist staphylococcus aureus (mrsa) [...] which protein are mutat in methicillin-resist staphylococcus aureus (mrsa) penicillin  protein (pbps)
what is the most common caus of both impetigo and cellul [...] what is the most common caus of both impetigo and cellul staphylococcus aureus and streptococcus pyogen
which 2 toxin from staphylococcus aureus caus staphylococc scald skin syndrom [...] which 2 toxin from staphylococcus aureus caus staphylococc scald skin syndrom exfoliatin a and b
what is the 2nd most common caus of infecti arthriti [...] what is the 2nd most common caus of infecti arthriti staphylococcus aureus
what is the most common caus of acut bacteri endocard [...] what is the most common caus of acut bacteri endocard staphylococcus aureus (high virulence) rapid onset
[...] is the most common caus of acut bacteri endocard and common caus larg veget on previous normal cardiac valves. staphylococcus aureus is the most common caus of acut bacteri endocard and common caus larg veget on previous normal cardiac valves. rapid onset
which gram-posit bacteria is associ with endocard in iv drug abus [...] which gram-posit bacteria is associ with endocard in iv drug abus staphylococcus aureus
what is the most common caus of endocard in iv drug abus [...] what is the most common caus of endocard in iv drug abus staphylococcus aureus
what colour pigment is associ with staphylococcus aureus [...] what colour pigment is associ with staphylococcus aureus yellow aureus is latin for gold.
[...] is a virul factor express by staphylococcus aureus that  to the f c region of igg therebi prevent opson and phagocytosis. protein a is a virul factor express by staphylococcus aureus that  to the f c region of igg therebi prevent opson and phagocytosis.
[...] is a superantigen exotoxin from staphylococcus aureus that bring mhc ii and t-cell receptor in close proxim to the antigen  site, therebi caus overwhelm ifn-gamma and il-2 release. toxic shock syndrom toxin (tsst-1) is a superantigen exotoxin from staphylococcus aureus that bring mhc ii and t-cell receptor in close proxim to the antigen  site, therebi caus overwhelm ifn-gamma and il-2 release. therebi caus shock.
what is the moa of toxic shock syndrom toxin (tsst-1) from staphylococcus aureus [...] what is the moa of toxic shock syndrom toxin (tsst-1) from staphylococcus aureus bring of mhc ii and t-cell receptor in proxim to outsid of the antigen  site, therebi caus overwhelm releas of ifn-gamma and il-2 and subsequ shock.
[...] is an exotoxin from staphylococcus aureus that caus staphylococc scald skin syndrom (ssss). exfoliatin is an exotoxin from staphylococcus aureus that caus staphylococc scald skin syndrom (ssss).
what type of hemolysi is exhibit by staphylococcus aureus [...] what type of hemolysi is exhibit by staphylococcus aureus beta-hemolysi catalase-posit coagulase-posit
where in the respiratori tract doe staphylococcus aureus common colon [...] where in the respiratori tract doe staphylococcus aureus common colon nose
[...] is a virul factor from staphylococcus aureus that  to the f c portion of igg, therebi inhibit complement  and phagocytosis. protein a is a virul factor from staphylococcus aureus that  to the f c portion of igg, therebi inhibit complement  and phagocytosis.
which exotoxin from staphylococcus aureus caus toxic shock syndrom [...] which exotoxin from staphylococcus aureus caus toxic shock syndrom toxic shock syndrom toxin (tsst-1)
which exotoxin from staphylococcus aureus caus staphylococc scald skin syndrom (ssss) [...] which exotoxin from staphylococcus aureus caus staphylococc scald skin syndrom (ssss) exfoliatin
which exotoxin from staphylococcus aureus caus rapid-onset food poison [...] which exotoxin from staphylococcus aureus caus rapid-onset food poison staphylococc enterotoxin incub period is veri short (2-6 hrs) due to the toxin be pre-ed. the enterotoxin is heat stabl and henc is not destroy by cooking.
[...] is a respiratori complic of staphylococcus aureus infect that common aris after an influenza virus infection. pneumonia is a respiratori complic of staphylococcus aureus infect that common aris after an influenza virus infection.
[...] is a  of staphylococcus aureus that is resist to methicillin and nafcillin due to alter penicillin- proteins. methicillin-resist staphylococcus aureus (mrsa) is a  of staphylococcus aureus that is resist to methicillin and nafcillin due to alter penicillin- proteins. mrsa is an import caus of serious nocosomi and community-acquir infections.
what is the catalas express of staphylococcus aureus [...] what is the catalas express of staphylococcus aureus posit
what is the coagulas express of staphylococcus aureus [...] what is the coagulas express of staphylococcus aureus posit coagulas help staphylococcus aureus  fibrin clot around itself,  a sort of abscess.
[...] is a protein produc by streptococcus agalactia (group b strep) that function to enlargen the area of hemolysi yield by staphylococcus aureus . camp factor is a protein produc by streptococcus agalactia (group b strep) that function to enlargen the area of hemolysi yield by staphylococcus aureus . camp ≠ camp.
[...] is a gram-posit bacteria that can be use to grow haemophilus influenza due to it abil to provid factor v (nad+). staphylococcus aureus is a gram-posit bacteria that can be use to grow haemophilus influenza due to it abil to provid factor v (nad+).
where in the bodi is staphylococcus aureus normal found [...] where in the bodi is staphylococcus aureus normal found nose
what food sourc is associ with staphylococcus aureus food poison [...] what food sourc is associ with staphylococcus aureus food poison meats; mayonnaise; custard involv pre enterotoxin
which bacteria is the most common caus of osteomyel [...] which bacteria is the most common caus of osteomyel staphylococcus aureus if no other in is avail about the patient, alway assum that staphylococcus aureus is the cause.
which bacteria is associ with osteomyel in patient that have receiv a prosthet joint replac (2) [...] which bacteria is associ with osteomyel in patient that have receiv a prosthet joint replac (2) staphylococcus aureus; staphylococcus epidermidi
what is the most common nocosomi wound infect [...] what is the most common nocosomi wound infect staphylococcus aureus
which bug are associ with infect in patient with chronic granulomat diseas (cgd) [...] which bug are associ with infect in patient with chronic granulomat diseas (cgd) catalas posit microbes; especi staphylococcus aureus
which bacteria is associ with surgic wound infect [...] which bacteria is associ with surgic wound infect staphylococcus aureus
what is the clinic use of beta-lactamas resist penicillin (nafcillin/oxacillin/dicloxacillin) [...] what is the clinic use of beta-lactamas resist penicillin (nafcillin/oxacillin/dicloxacillin) staphylococcus aureus (except for mrsa) "use naf to kill staph "
[...] is a 1st generat cephalosporin that is use prior to surgeri to prevent staphylococcus aureus wound infections. cefazolin is a 1st generat cephalosporin that is use prior to surgeri to prevent staphylococcus aureus wound infections.
what is the prophylact treatment for postsurg staphylococcus aureus infect [...] what is the prophylact treatment for postsurg staphylococcus aureus infect cefazolin
which bacteria is the most common caus of delay would heal [...] which bacteria is the most common caus of delay would heal staphylococcus aureus
which bacteria are the 2 most common caus of cellul [...] which bacteria are the 2 most common caus of cellul streptococcus pyogenes; staphylococcus aureus
[...] is a type of impetigo that has bulla and is usual caus by staphylococcus aureus . bullous impetigo is a type of impetigo that has bulla and is usual caus by staphylococcus aureus .
what is the most common caus of bullous impetigo [...] what is the most common caus of bullous impetigo staphylococcus aureus
what is the classic treatment of: legionella pneumophila erythromycin (macrolides)
[...] is a bacteria that caus communiti acquir bronchopneumonia, bronchopneumonia in copd patient and bronchopneumonia in immunocompromis patients. legionella pneumophila is a bacteria that caus communiti acquir bronchopneumonia, bronchopneumonia in copd patient and bronchopneumonia in immunocompromis patients.
how is legionella pneumophila transmit [...] how is legionella pneumophila transmit via water sourc
which stain is need to best visual legionella pneumophila [...] which stain is need to best visual legionella pneumophila silver stain
what kind of pneumonia doe legionella pneumonia caus [...] what kind of pneumonia doe legionella pneumonia caus lobar, atyp
what stain is need to visual legionella pneumophila [...] what stain is need to visual legionella pneumophila gimenez stain
[...] is a gram-neg bacteria that caus atypical/broncho- pneumonia that is not contagi . it is transmit from water sources. legionella pneumophila is a gram-neg bacteria that caus atypical/broncho- pneumonia that is not contagi . it is transmit from water sources.
what caus legionnair diseas [...] what caus legionnair diseas legionella pneumophila
what is the doc for legionella pneumophila infect azithromycin
what is the antibiot that is the doc for legionella [...] what is the antibiot that is the doc for legionella azithromycin
what is the gram stain of legionella [...] what is the gram stain of legionella negat
whi doesn't legionella pneunophila gram stain well [...] whi doesn't legionella pneunophila gram stain well primarili intracellular organ legionella requir a silver stain.
what type of stain is use to visual legionella [...] what type of stain is use to visual legionella silver stain
which stain is use to visual legionella [...] which stain is use to visual legionella silver stain
which special cultur media/agar is use to isol legionella [...] which special cultur media/agar is use to isol legionella charcoal yeast agar (buffer with cystein and iron)
what stain is requir to proper visual legionella pneumophila [...] what stain is requir to proper visual legionella pneumophila silver stain
what culture/agar is requir to grow legionella pneumophila [...] what culture/agar is requir to grow legionella pneumophila charcoal yeast extract with iron and cystein legionella is clinic detect by the presenc of antigen in the urine.
how is legionella pneumophila transmit aerosol from environment water sourc to habitat e.g. air condit unit; hot water tank there is no person-to-person transmiss
what is the treatment for legionella pneumophila infect macrolid or quinolon
what is the etiolog of legionnair diseas [...] what is the etiolog of legionnair diseas legionella pneumophila
[...] is a respiratori disord caus by legionella pneumophila that present with sever pneumonia , fever, gi and cns symptoms. legionnair diseas is a respiratori disord caus by legionella pneumophila that present with sever pneumonia , fever, gi and cns symptoms.
what is the etiolog of pontiac fever [...] what is the etiolog of pontiac fever legionella pneumophila
[...] is a fever caus by legionella pneumophila that present as a mild flu-lik syndrom . pontiac fever is a fever caus by legionella pneumophila that present as a mild flu-lik syndrom .
which electrolyt imbal is seen in the lab of a patient with legionella pneumophila [...] which electrolyt imbal is seen in the lab of a patient with legionella pneumophila hyponatremia
[...] is a bacteri nocosomi infect that has water aerosol as a risk factor. legionella is a bacteri nocosomi infect that has water aerosol as a risk factor.
[...] are a class of protein synthesi inhibit antibiot that treat atyp pneumonia ( mycoplasma, chlamydia, legionella ). [...] macrolid are a class of protein synthesi inhibit antibiot that treat atyp pneumonia ( mycoplasma, chlamydia, legionella ). also doxycyclin
what is the most frequent caus of lobar pneumonia [...] what is the most frequent caus of lobar pneumonia steptococcus pneumonia legionella and klebsiella are common as well.
what are some exampl of how legionella spreads, and how doe it not spread doe not spread via person to person transmiss spread via respiratori equipment, shower heads, jacuzis, pave machin
legionella - more sever less sever = ; what are the symptom present pontiac fever; flu-lik illness, with no pnemonia and no fatal
how would one carri out the treatment of legionella pneumophila macrolid or fluoroquinolones; they penetr into the mammalian cells; legionella is an intracellular pathogen of macrophag
what is the most common/ import associ of: bacteri mening (newborn ) ( kids) group b streptococcus (newborns), s. pneumoniae/neisseria meningitidi (kids)
streptococcus pneumonia is a gram- [...] , alpha-hemolyt coccus. streptococcus pneumonia is a gram- posit , alpha-hemolyt coccus. alpha
streptococcus pneumonia is a gram-positive, [...] -hemolyt coccus. streptococcus pneumonia is a gram-positive, alpha -hemolyt coccus. alpha
[...] is a gram-posit cocci that is veri suscept to cephalosporin antibiotics. streptococcus pneumonia is a gram-posit cocci that is veri suscept to cephalosporin antibiotics.
[...] is a bacteri genet process through with nake dna is taken up from the environment. trans is a bacteri genet process through with nake dna is taken up from the environment. especi seen with s treptococcus pneumoniae, h aemophilus i nfluenza type b and n eisseria spp. ( shin ).
what is the optochin sensit of streptococcus pneumonia [...] what is the optochin sensit of streptococcus pneumonia sensit " ov e rp a s s"
which organ is respons for clear opson encapsul bacteria [...] which organ is respons for clear opson encapsul bacteria spleen hence, aplen have decreas opson and clear ability, therebi give them a signific increas risk for sever infection. such patient should receiv s. pneumoniae, h. influenza and n. meningitidi vaccinations.
what type of hemolysi is exhibit by streptococcus pneumonia [...] what type of hemolysi is exhibit by streptococcus pneumonia alpha-hemolysi catalase-neg optochin sensit
which bacteria is the most common caus of mening [...] which bacteria is the most common caus of mening streptococcus pneumonia
which bacteria is the most common caus of otiti media in children [...] which bacteria is the most common caus of otiti media in children streptococcus pneumonia
which bacteria is the most common caus of pneumonia [...] which bacteria is the most common caus of pneumonia streptococcus pneumonia
which bacteria is the most common caus of sinus [...] which bacteria is the most common caus of sinus streptococcus pneumonia
[...] is a lancet-shap streptococcus speci that is associ with "rusty" sputum . streptococcus pneumonia is a lancet-shap streptococcus speci that is associ with "rusty" sputum . encapsul iga proteas positive.
[...] is a lancet-shap streptococcus speci that is associ with sepsi in sickl cell anaemia and splenectomy. streptococcus pneumonia is a lancet-shap streptococcus speci that is associ with sepsi in sickl cell anaemia and splenectomy. encapsulated. iga proteas positive.
what kind of pneumonia doe streptococcus pneumonia caus [...] what kind of pneumonia doe streptococcus pneumonia caus lobar pneumonia
what is the most common caus of communiti acquir pneumonia [...] what is the most common caus of communiti acquir pneumonia streptococcus pneumonia
what is the most common caus of secondari pneumonia [...] what is the most common caus of secondari pneumonia streptococcus pneumonia
what is the most common caus of pneumonia [...] what is the most common caus of pneumonia streptococcus pneumonia
which virul factor from streptococcus pneumonia allow it to inhibit phagocytosi [...] which virul factor from streptococcus pneumonia allow it to inhibit phagocytosi capsular polysaccharid
which virul factor from streptococcus pneumonia allow it to attach to epitheli cell of the nasopharynx [...] which virul factor from streptococcus pneumonia allow it to attach to epitheli cell of the nasopharynx surfac adhesin a
which virul factor from streptococcus pneumonia allow it to avoid phagocytosi and complement mediat lysi by  to and inhibit complement factor h [...] which virul factor from streptococcus pneumonia allow it to avoid phagocytosi and complement mediat lysi by  to and inhibit complement factor h surfac protein c
which virul factor from streptococcus pneumonia act as a cytotox agent and  complement [...] which virul factor from streptococcus pneumonia act as a cytotox agent and  complement pneumolysin
streptococcus pneumonia is optochin [...] . streptococcus pneumonia is optochin sensit .
optochin respons sensitive: streptococcus pneumoniae; resistant: viridan streptococcus
what is the most common overal caus of infecti endocard [...] what is the most common overal caus of infecti endocard viridan streptococci
viridan streptococci caus [...] endocard as they are low virul pathogens. viridan streptococci caus subacut endocard as they are low virul pathogens.
what is the most common caus of subacut bacteri endocard [...] what is the most common caus of subacut bacteri endocard viridan streptococci (low virulence)
[...] are the most common caus of subacut bacteri endocard and  smaller veget on congenit abnorm or diseas valv . viridan streptococci are the most common caus of subacut bacteri endocard and  smaller veget on congenit abnorm or diseas valv .
[...] are the most common caus of subacut bacteri endocarditis, which common occur as a sequela of dental procedures. viridan streptococci are the most common caus of subacut bacteri endocarditis, which common occur as a sequela of dental procedures.
which bacteri caus of endocard is associ with the sequela of dental procedur [...] which bacteri caus of endocard is associ with the sequela of dental procedur viridan streptococci
what is the optochin sensit of viridan streptococci ( streptococcus mutan ) [...] what is the optochin sensit of viridan streptococci ( streptococcus mutan ) resist " ov e rp a s s"
what type of hemolysi is exhibit by viridan streptococci (e.g. streptococcus mutan ) [...] what type of hemolysi is exhibit by viridan streptococci (e.g. streptococcus mutan ) alpha-hemolysi catalase-neg optochin resist
which speci of viridan streptococci common caus dental cari [...] which speci of viridan streptococci common caus dental cari streptococcus mutan
which speci of viridan streptococci is known to caus subacut bacteri endocard at damag valv [...] which speci of viridan streptococci is known to caus subacut bacteri endocard at damag valv streptococcus sanguini sangui = blood = heart = endocard
where in the bodi are viridan streptococci normal found [...] where in the bodi are viridan streptococci normal found oropharynx
novobiocin respons sensitive: staphylococcus epidermidis; res istant : staphylococcus saprophyticus
[...] is a bacteri caus of endocard that is associ with prosthet heart valv . staphylococcus epidermidi is a bacteri caus of endocard that is associ with prosthet heart valv .
which bacteri caus of endocard is associ prosthet heart valv [...] which bacteri caus of endocard is associ prosthet heart valv staphylococcus epidermidi
what is the ureas express of staphylococcus epidermidi [...] what is the ureas express of staphylococcus epidermidi posit
what is the novobiocin sensit of staphylococcus epidermidi [...] what is the novobiocin sensit of staphylococcus epidermidi sensit " no s t res s"
[...] is a staphylococcus speci that common infect prosthet devic and intraven cathet by produc adher biofilms. staphylococcus epidermidi is a staphylococcus speci that common infect prosthet devic and intraven cathet by produc adher biofilms. compon of normal skin flora. contamin blood cultures. novobiocin sensitive.
where **on** the bodi is staphylococcus epidermidi found [...] where **on** the bodi is staphylococcus epidermidi found skin
where **in** the bodi is staphylococcus epidermidi normal found [...] where **in** the bodi is staphylococcus epidermidi normal found nose
what is the most common/ import associ of: uti e. coli, staphylococcus saprophyticus (young women)
[...] is a gram posit coccus that has an increas incid of caus cystiti in young, sexual  women . staphylococcus saprophyticus is a gram posit coccus that has an increas incid of caus cystiti in young, sexual  women . e. coli still the #1 caus in this demographic.
what is the ureas express of staphylococcus saprophyticus [...] what is the ureas express of staphylococcus saprophyticus posit
what is the novobiocin sensit of staphylococcus saprophyticus [...] what is the novobiocin sensit of staphylococcus saprophyticus resist "no s t res s"
what is the second most common caus of uti in sexual  women [...] what is the second most common caus of uti in sexual  women staphylococcus saprophyticus
bacitracin respons sensitive: streptococcus pyogen (group a) ; resistant: streptococcus agalactia (group b)
what is the classic treatment of: streptococcus pyogen ( prophylaxi ) penicil lin
what is the most common caus of pharyng [...] what is the most common caus of pharyng group a streptococc infection; streptococcus pyogen
what is the most common caus of both impetigo and cellul [...] what is the most common caus of both impetigo and cellul staphylococcus aureus and streptococcus pyogen
[...] is a virul factor express by group a streptococcus ( streptococcus pyogen ) speci that function to prevent phagocytosis. m protein is a virul factor express by group a streptococcus ( streptococcus pyogen ) speci that function to prevent phagocytosis.
[...] is an exotoxin from streptococcus pyogen that function to degrad the cell membrane. streptolysin o is an exotoxin from streptococcus pyogen that function to degrad the cell membrane.
what is the moa of streptolysin o from streptococcus pyogen [...] what is the moa of streptolysin o from streptococcus pyogen degrad of the cell membrane, therebi caus cell lysi
which disord is associ with aso (anti-streptolysin o) antibodi [...] which disord is associ with aso (anti-streptolysin o) antibodi rheumat fever remember, streptolysin o is from streptococcus pyogenes.
[...] is a superantigen exotoxin from streptococcus pyogen that bring mhc ii and t-cell receptor in proxim to the antigen  site, therebi caus toxic shock syndrome. exotoxin a is a superantigen exotoxin from streptococcus pyogen that bring mhc ii and t-cell receptor in proxim to the antigen  site, therebi caus toxic shock syndrome.
what is the moa of exotoxin a from streptococcus pyogen [...] what is the moa of exotoxin a from streptococcus pyogen superantigen; mhc ii and tcr ation, therebi caus massiv releas of ifn-gamma and il-2 not to be confus with exotoxin a from pseudomona aeruginosa which function to in ef2 and protein synthesis.
what is the bacitracin sensit of group a strep ( streptococcus pyogen ) [...] what is the bacitracin sensit of group a strep ( streptococcus pyogen ) sensit " b-bras "
what type of hemolysi is exhibit by group a strep ( streptococcus pyogen ) beta-hemolysi catalase-neg bacitracin sensit
which streptococcus speci is consid group a strep [...] which streptococcus speci is consid group a strep streptococcus pyogen
which streptococcus speci is known to caus scarlet fever [...] which streptococcus speci is known to caus scarlet fever streptococcus pyogen (group a strep)
which streptococcus speci is known to caus necrot fasciiti [...] which streptococcus speci is known to caus necrot fasciiti streptococcus pyogen (group a strep)
which streptococcus speci is known to caus rheumat fever [...] which streptococcus speci is known to caus rheumat fever streptococcus pyogen (group a strep)
antibodi to [...] , a virul factor from streptococcus pyogen , enhanc host defens against the bacteria but can give rise to rheumat fever. antibodi to m protein , a virul factor from streptococcus pyogen , enhanc host defens against the bacteria but can give rise to rheumat fever.
which streptococcus speci is associ with an increas in aso titer [...] which streptococcus speci is associ with an increas in aso titer streptococcus pyogen aso titer are indic of recent s. pyogen infection.
[...] and acut glomerulonephr are 2 immunolog complic of pharyng caus by streptococcus pyogen . rheumat fever and acut glomerulonephr are 2 immunolog complic of pharyng caus by streptococcus pyogen . "strep ph aryng can becom rheumat ph ever and glomerulon ph ritis."
rheumat fever and [...] are 2 immunolog complic of pharyng caus by streptococcus pyogen . rheumat fever and acut glomerulonephr are 2 immunolog complic of pharyng caus by streptococcus pyogen . "strep ph aryng can becom rheumat ph ever and glomerulon ph ritis."
[...] is a toxigen complic of streptococcus pyogen infect that involv a scarlet rash with sandpaper-lik textur , a strawberri tongu and circumor pallor . scarlet fever is a toxigen complic of streptococcus pyogen infect that involv a scarlet rash with sandpaper-lik textur , a strawberri tongu and circumor pallor .
[...] is an infect caus by streptococcus pyogen that present with an erythematous, sandpaper-lik rash with fever and sore throat . scarlet fever is an infect caus by streptococcus pyogen that present with an erythematous, sandpaper-lik rash with fever and sore throat .
which type of bacteria are treat by penicillin g and v [...] which type of bacteria are treat by penicillin g and v most gram-positive( streptococcus pneumoniae; streptococcus pyogenes; actinomyc ); also neisseria meningitidi and treponema pallidum
besid anaerob infections, what is the clinic use of clindamycin [...] besid anaerob infections, what is the clinic use of clindamycin invas group a streptococc infect ( streptococcus pyogen )
what is the caus of necrot fasciiti [...] what is the caus of necrot fasciiti anaerob bactera; streptococcus pyogen flesh-eat bacteria.
[...] is a superfici bacteri skin infect typic caus by staphylococcus aureus or streptococcus pyogen . impetigo is a superfici bacteri skin infect typic caus by staphylococcus aureus or streptococcus pyogen .
what is the most common caus of both impetigo and cellul [...] what is the most common caus of both impetigo and cellul staphylococcus aureus and streptococcus pyogen
[...] are bacteri toxin that function to cross-link the beta-region of tcrs on all t cell to mhc ii on apc , therebi caus massiv releas of cytokines. superantigen are bacteri toxin that function to cross-link the beta-region of tcrs on all t cell to mhc ii on apc , therebi caus massiv releas of cytokines. especi releas from streptococcus pyogen and staphylococcus aureus.
[...] and group b streptococcus ( streptococcus agalactia ) are 2 speci of streptococcus that are encapsulated. streptococcus pneumonia and group b streptococcus ( streptococcus agalactia ) are 2 speci of streptococcus that are encapsulated.
streptococcus pneumonia and [...] are 2 speci of streptococcus that are encapsulated. streptococcus pneumonia and group b streptococcus ( streptococcus agalactia ) are 2 speci of streptococcus that are encapsulated.
what is the bacitracin sensit of group b strep ( streptococcus agalactia ) [...] what is the bacitracin sensit of group b strep ( streptococcus agalactia ) resist " b-bras "
what type of hemolysi is exhibit by group b strep ( streptococcus agalactia ) [...] what type of hemolysi is exhibit by group b strep ( streptococcus agalactia ) beta-hemolysi catalase-neg bacitracin resistant.
which streptococcus speci is consid group b strep [...] which streptococcus speci is consid group b strep streptococcus agalactia
where is group b strep ( streptococcus agalactia ) normal found in the bodi [...] where is group b strep ( streptococcus agalactia ) normal found in the bodi vagina streptococcus vag alactia pregnant women are screen for streptococcus agalactia at 35-37 week of gestation. patient with a posit cultur receiv intrapartum penicillin prophylaxis.
which "group" of streptococcus bacteria are known to caus pneumonia, mening and sepsi main in babi [...] which "group" of streptococcus bacteria are known to caus pneumonia, mening and sepsi main in babi streptococcus agalactia (group b strep) group b is for the b abies.
[...] is a protein produc by streptococcus agalactia (group b strep) that function to enlargen the area of hemolysi yield by staphylococcus aureus . camp factor is a protein produc by streptococcus agalactia (group b strep) that function to enlargen the area of hemolysi yield by staphylococcus aureus . camp ≠ camp.
what hippur test  is yield by streptococcus agalactia (group b strep) [...] what hippur test  is yield by streptococcus agalactia (group b strep) posit the hippur test gaug whether or not the organ can hydrolyz hippurate.
[...] , escherichia coli , and listeria monocytogen are bacteria that all caus mening in neonates. streptococcus agalactia , escherichia coli , and listeria monocytogen are bacteria that all caus mening in neonates.
streptococcus agalactia , [...] , and listeria monocytogen are bacteria that all caus mening in neonates. streptococcus agalactia , escherichia coli , and listeria monocytogen are bacteria that all caus mening in neonates.
streptococcus agalactia , escherichia coli , and [...] are bacteria that all caus mening in neonates. streptococcus agalactia , escherichia coli , and listeria monocytogen are bacteria that all caus mening in neonates.
which bacteria is common associ with caus sepsi and mening in newborn [...] which bacteria is common associ with caus sepsi and mening in newborn group b strep ( streptococcus agalactia )
what is the prophylact treatment for pregnant women carri group b strep ( streptococcus agalactia ) [...] what is the prophylact treatment for pregnant women carri group b strep ( streptococcus agalactia ) ampicillin
what signal mechan play an import role in at of biofilm what signal mechan play an import role in at of biofilm quorum sens
which demograph is common affect by primari tuberculosi which demograph is common affect by primari tuberculosi non immun host (i.e. children); immunocompromis
mycobacterium tuberculosi treatment mycobacterium tuberculosi treatment ripe (rifampin, inh, pyrazinamide, ethambutol )
back pain, fever, night sweats, weight loss back pain, fever, night sweats, weight loss pott 's diseas (vertebr tuberculosis)
what bacteri speci caus pott diseas what bacteri speci caus pott diseas mycobacterium tuberculosi
what pattern of necrosi is characterist seen in tuberculosi what pattern of necrosi is characterist seen in tuberculosi caseous necrosis; with granuloma also seen in system mycos and nocardia
what bacteri speci caus pott diseas [...] what bacteri speci caus pott diseas mycobacterium tuberculosi mycobacterium tuberculosi
what is the 2nd line antibiot for tuberculosi what is the 2nd line antibiot for tuberculosi ciprofloxacin
___ is a  of osteomyel caus by mycobacterium tuberculosis. ___ is a  of osteomyel caus by mycobacterium tuberculosis. pott diseas it common involv the lumbar vetebra
___ is an aminoglycosid that is use against mycobacterium tuberculosis, yersinia pesti and francisella tularemia . ___ is an aminoglycosid that is use against mycobacterium tuberculosis, yersinia pesti and francisella tularemia . streptomycin
what is the etiolog of primari and secondari tuberculosi what is the etiolog of primari and secondari tuberculosi mycobacterium tuberculosi
mening caus by ___is character by a grey-green gelatin or fibrin exud in the subarachnoid space and granuloma in cns tissue. mening caus by ___is character by a grey-green gelatin or fibrin exud in the subarachnoid space and granuloma in cns tissue. mycobacterium tuberculosi
what is the treatment for mycobacterium tuberculosi what is the treatment for mycobacterium tuberculosi " ripe " for treatment. rifampin isoniazid pyrazinamid ethambutol
where in the lung doe mycobacterium tuberculosi re where in the lung doe mycobacterium tuberculosi re the lung apic due to high p o2 level re typic occur after immun compromis or tnf-alpha inhibitor use.
__, __, __, __ are the 4 antimycobacteri drug use to treat tuberculosis. __, __, __, __ are the 4 antimycobacteri drug use to treat tuberculosis. rifampin, isoniazid, pyrazinamid and ethambutol
which special cultur media/agar is use to isol mycobacterium tuberculosi which special cultur media/agar is use to isol mycobacterium tuberculosi lowenstein-jensen agar
which area of the lung is the ghon focus usual found in primari tuberculosi which area of the lung is the ghon focus usual found in primari tuberculosi
what is the oxygen depend of mycobacterium tuberculosi what is the oxygen depend of mycobacterium tuberculosi
which antimycobacteri drug is use as prophylaxi for mycobacterium tuberculosi which antimycobacteri drug is use as prophylaxi for mycobacterium tuberculosi isoniazid
which bacteria is associ with osteomyel at the vertebra which bacteria is associ with osteomyel at the vertebra mycobacterium tuberculosi remember, this is call pott diseas
which mycobacteria speci is known to caus tuberculosi which mycobacteria speci is known to caus tuberculosi mycobacterium tuberculosi often resist to mani drugs.
__ is a possibl complic of extrapulmonari tuberculosi that involv spread of infect to vertebr bodies. __ is a possibl complic of extrapulmonari tuberculosi that involv spread of infect to vertebr bodies. pott diseas
where in the lung doe re of tuberculosi normal occur where in the lung doe re of tuberculosi normal occur
__ is an acid-fast, oblig aerob bacteria that caus tuberculosis. __ is an acid-fast, oblig aerob bacteria that caus tuberculosis. mycobacterium tuberculosi
the granuloma involv in ___ have a characterist horsesho orient of the nuclei in it giant cells. the granuloma involv in ___ have a characterist horsesho orient of the nuclei in it giant cells. tuberculosi
mycobacterium tuberculosi are onli abl to be visual with an ___ stain. mycobacterium tuberculosi are onli abl to be visual with an ___ stain. acid-fast
__ is a  of tuberculosi that involv tini seed-shap tubercules/granuloma that are dissemin all over the body, typic at the lungs. __ is a  of tuberculosi that involv tini seed-shap tubercules/granuloma that are dissemin all over the body, typic at the lungs. miliari
how is mycobacterium tuberculosi transmit how is mycobacterium tuberculosi transmit aerosol respiratori droplet
which pneumoconiosi is associ with an increas risk for tuberculosi which pneumoconiosi is associ with an increas risk for tuberculosi silicosi silica is thought to disrupt phagolysosom and impair macrophag action, therebi increas suscept to tb.
___ is a mycobacteri speci that thrive in high o 2 and flourish in the apex of the lung. ___ is a mycobacteri speci that thrive in high o 2 and flourish in the apex of the lung. mycobacterium tuberculosi
what is the etiolog of leprosi (hansen disease) what is the etiolog of leprosi (hansen disease) mycobacterium lepra mycobacterium lepra acid-fast. love cool temperatures.
__ is an acid-fast bacillus that caus leprosi (hansen disease). __ is an acid-fast bacillus that caus leprosi (hansen disease). myobacterium lepra
___ is a the bacteri caus of leprosi that like cool temperatur , therebi  in infect of the skin and superfici nerves. ___ is a the bacteri caus of leprosi that like cool temperatur , therebi  in infect of the skin and superfici nerves. mycobacterium lepra this lead to a "glove and stocking" loss of sensation. this is also mean that mycobacterium lepra cannot be grown in vitro.
__ is a neurolog complic of leprosi due to preferrenti infect of the skin and superfici nerv by mycobacterium lepra . __ is a neurolog complic of leprosi due to preferrenti infect of the skin and superfici nerv by mycobacterium lepra . "glove and stocking" sensat loss remember, this is becaus mycobacterium lepra like cool temperatur (i.e. the surfac and extrem of the body).
which anim is the reservoir for mycobacterium lepra in the usa which anim is the reservoir for mycobacterium lepra in the usa armadillo
which  of leprosi present with a "glove and stocking" distribut of digit de which  of leprosi present with a "glove and stocking" distribut of digit de lepromat this is due to sensori loss and repeat trauma in the extremities. remember, mycobacterium lepra like cooler temperatur and henc infect the skin and superfici nerv at the extremities.
what is the treatment for the lepremat  of mycobacterium lepra what is the treatment for the lepremat  of mycobacterium lepra dapson + rifampin + clofazimin
what is the treatment for the tuberculoid  of mycobacterium lepra what is the treatment for the tuberculoid  of mycobacterium lepra dapson + rifampin
which mycobacteria produc niacin which mycobacteria produc niacin m. tuberculosi
drug reaction: cutan flush causal agent niacin, ca2+ channel ers, adenosine, vancomycin
drug reaction: nephrotox / ototox causal agent aminoglycosid vancomycin loop diuret (furosemide) cisplatin
what is the classic treatment of: mrsa treatment vancomycin
what is the classic treatment of: staphylococcus aureus mssa: nafcillin, oxacillin, dicloxacillin (antistaphylococc penicillins); mrsa: vancomycin
[...] is an antibiot that target the bacteri cell wall by inhibit transglycosylase. vancomycin is an antibiot that target the bacteri cell wall by inhibit transglycosylase.
[...] is a bactericid antibiot that inhibit the bacteri enzym transglycolas by  to nascent pg pentapeptides. vancomycin is a bactericid antibiot that inhibit the bacteri enzym transglycolas by  to nascent pg pentapeptides.
vancomycin is a bactericid antibiot that inhibit the bacteri enzym [...] by  to nascent pg pentapeptides. vancomycin is a bactericid antibiot that inhibit the bacteri enzym transglycolas by  to nascent pg pentapeptides.
[...] is the antibiot use to treat drug resist g+ bacteria (mrsa), beta-lactam resist bacteria and c. difficil infection. vancomycin is the antibiot use to treat drug resist g+ bacteria (mrsa), beta-lactam resist bacteria and c. difficil infection.
what is the antibiot use in penicillin-resist endocard [...] what is the antibiot use in penicillin-resist endocard vancomycin
what antibiot combin is use to treat mrsa endocard [...] what antibiot combin is use to treat mrsa endocard vancomycin + gentamycin
vancomycin is ineffect against gram- [...] bacteria vancomycin is ineffect against gram- negat bacteria
what is the moa of vancomycin [...] what is the moa of vancomycin inhibit of bacteri transglycolas
what is the doc for mrsa respiratori infect [...] what is the doc for mrsa respiratori infect vancomycin
[...] is an antibiot than can be given oral to treat enterocol caus by clostridium difficil vancomycin is an antibiot than can be given oral to treat enterocol caus by clostridium difficil
[...] is an advers effect of vancomycin character by histamin induc hypotens and vasodil follow iv roa only. red man/neck syndrom is an advers effect of vancomycin character by histamin induc hypotens and vasodil follow iv roa only.
what type of antibiot is vancomycin (specific) [...] what type of antibiot is vancomycin (specific) glycopeptid
[...] is a glycopeptid antibiot that is consid the silver bullet against gram-posit bactera. vancomycin is a glycopeptid antibiot that is consid the silver bullet against gram-posit bactera.
[...] is a glycopeptid antibiot that inhibit transglycolas in gram-posit bacteria onli . vancomycin is a glycopeptid antibiot that inhibit transglycolas in gram-posit bacteria onli .
what is the moa of vancomycin [...] what is the moa of vancomycin inhibit of transglycolas in gram-posit
what is the doc for mrsa [...] what is the doc for mrsa vancomycin
[...] is an advers effect of vancomycin that involv flush of the torso and itch of the skin. red man/neck syndrom is an advers effect of vancomycin that involv flush of the torso and itch of the skin.
[...] is a vaso-act hormon that is releas nonimmunolog in red man/neck syndrom follow vancomycin administration, therebi caus flush and pruritis. histamin is a vaso-act hormon that is releas nonimmunolog in red man/neck syndrom follow vancomycin administration, therebi caus flush and pruritis.
how doe vancomycin influenc gram-neg bacteria [...] how doe vancomycin influenc gram-neg bacteria no effect the outer membran layer of gram-neg bacteria doe not let vancomycin enter.
what is the moa of vancomycin [...] what is the moa of vancomycin inhibit of peptidoglycan at by  to d-ala-d-ala on cell wall precursor  in inhibit of transglycolas action.
what is the clinic use of vancomycin [...] what is the clinic use of vancomycin gram-posit onli ; multidrug resist organ (mrsa, enterococci, clostridium difficil ) vancomycin is given as an oral dose in pseudomembran colitis.
[...] is a cutan complic of vancomycin that present with diffus flush around the body. red man syndrom is a cutan complic of vancomycin that present with diffus flush around the body. can be prevent by antihistamin prophylaxi and a slow infus rate of vancomycin.
what is the mechan of resist against vancomycin [...] what is the mechan of resist against vancomycin bacteri modif of d-ala-d-ala to d-ala-d-lac
[...] is a glycopeptid antibiot that is use to treat mrsa. vancomycin is a glycopeptid antibiot that is use to treat mrsa.
what is the cardiovascular toxic of vancomycin [...] what is the cardiovascular toxic of vancomycin cutan flush
which class of antibiot are the most effect against intracellular bacteria [...] which class of antibiot are the most effect against intracellular bacteria macrolid
what is the moa of macrolid antibiot [...] what is the moa of macrolid antibiot  to the 50s ribosom subunit, therebi inhibit transloc
what is a secondari moa of macrolid antibiot at the gi tract [...] what is a secondari moa of macrolid antibiot at the gi tract stimul of motilin receptors, therebi caus git motil henc caus git pain and diarrhea
[...] is a macrolid antibiot that doe not inhibit cyp450 enzymes. azithromycin is a macrolid antibiot that doe not inhibit cyp450 enzymes.
[...] is a macrolid antibiot that we prefer over doxycylin in pregnant women. azithromycin is a macrolid antibiot that we prefer over doxycylin in pregnant women.
what is the mechan against macrolid resist [...] what is the mechan against macrolid resist methyl of the 50s ribosom subunit
[...] are a type of antibiot that inhibit cyp450 enzymes. macrolid are a type of antibiot that inhibit cyp450 enzymes. rifampin is a strong inducer.
what is the moa of macrolid (erythromycin and azithromycin) [...] what is the moa of macrolid (erythromycin and azithromycin) inhibit of the 50s subunit
what is the treatment for legionella pneumophila infect [...] what is the treatment for legionella pneumophila infect macrolid or quinolon
which bacteri ribosom subunit is target by erythromycin and other macrolid [...] which bacteri ribosom subunit is target by erythromycin and other macrolid 50s
what class of antibiot is azithromycin [...] what class of antibiot is azithromycin macrolid
what type of antibiot is clarithromycin [...] what type of antibiot is clarithromycin macrolid
what type of antibiot is erythromycin [...] what type of antibiot is erythromycin macrolid
what is the moa of macrolid antibiot [...] what is the moa of macrolid antibiot inhibit of transloc , by  to the 23s rrna of the 50s subunit
[...] are a class of protein synthesi inhibit antibiot that treat atyp pneumonia ( mycoplasma, chlamydia, legionella ). [...] macrolid are a class of protein synthesi inhibit antibiot that treat atyp pneumonia ( mycoplasma, chlamydia, legionella ). doxycyclin too
[...] are a class of protein synthesi inhibit antibiot that treat gram-posit cocci in patient that are allerg to penicillins. macrolid are a class of protein synthesi inhibit antibiot that treat gram-posit cocci in patient that are allerg to penicillins. they also treat stds (chlamydia)
[...] is a gi complic of macrolid antibiot administration. gi motil issu is a gi complic of macrolid antibiot administration.
[...] is a cardiac complic of macrolid antibiot use that is caus by a prolong qt interv . arrhythmia is a cardiac complic of macrolid antibiot use that is caus by a prolong qt interv .
what is the cardiovascular toxic of macrolid antibiot [...] what is the cardiovascular toxic of macrolid antibiot torsad de point
[...] is a macrolid antibiot that also act as a motilin agonist, therebi stimul intestin peristalsis. erythromycin is a macrolid antibiot that also act as a motilin agonist, therebi stimul intestin peristalsis.
what is the treatment for all chlamydia infect [...] what is the treatment for all chlamydia infect azithromycin (favour abx due to one-tim treatment); doxycyclin
what is the 1st line antibiot for mac infect [...] what is the 1st line antibiot for mac infect azithromycin
[...] is a macrolid antibiot that is use to treat chlamydi urethr and chlamydi cervicitis. azithromycin is a macrolid antibiot that is use to treat chlamydi urethr and chlamydi cervicitis.
[...] is an antibiot that target the 50s ribosom subunit and  the initi complex. linezolid is an antibiot that target the 50s ribosom subunit and  the initi complex. (also accepted: macrolides)
what is the moa of linezolid [...] what is the moa of linezolid  to the 23s subunit of the 50s ribosom subunit, therebi  at of the initi complex
linezolid also inhibit [...] , an enzym involv in metabolis of mani neurotransmitt and hormones. linezolid also inhibit monoamin oxidas (mao) , an enzym involv in metabolis of mani neurotransmitt and hormones.
[...] is an antibiot that is general reserv as an altern agent for the treatment of respiratori infect due to multidrug resist strain such as mssa, mrsa, vrsa and vre. linezolid is an antibiot that is general reserv as an altern agent for the treatment of respiratori infect due to multidrug resist strain such as mssa, mrsa, vrsa and vre. it is henc use sparingly.
[...] is an oxazolidinon antibiot that is ineffect against gram-neg bacteria. linezolid is an oxazolidinon antibiot that is ineffect against gram-neg bacteria.
linezolid is an oxazolidinon antibiot that is ineffect against gram- [...] bacteria. linezolid is an oxazolidinon antibiot that is ineffect against gram- negat bacteria.
what is the moa of linezolid [...] what is the moa of linezolid inhibit of the 50s subunit
[...] is a reserv antibiot that inhibit the 50s ribosom subunit in resist bacteria such as mrsa, vrsa, and vre. linezolid is a reserv antibiot that inhibit the 50s ribosom subunit in resist bacteria such as mrsa, vrsa, and vre.
how doe linezolid affect lactic acid level [...] how doe linezolid affect lactic acid level increas caus lactic acidosis.
[...] is a metabol enzym that is inhibit by linezolid through drug interact and is involv in the breakdown of monoamines. monoamin oxidas is a metabol enzym that is inhibit by linezolid through drug interact and is involv in the breakdown of monoamines.
[...] is an antibiot that can caus hypoglycemia if the patient is take anti-diabet or insulin. linezolid is an antibiot that can caus hypoglycemia if the patient is take anti-diabet or insulin.
which bacteri ribosom subunit is target by linezolid [...] which bacteri ribosom subunit is target by linezolid 50s
which antibiot creat hole in the bacteri membran lipopeptid (daptomycin)
which drug is a common caus of contact dermat [...] which drug is a common caus of contact dermat penicillin
what is the classic treatment of: streptococcus pneumonia (system infection, pneumonia), (meningitis) penicillin/cephalosporin vancomycin macrolid
which antibiot is the drug of choic to treat syphili [...] which antibiot is the drug of choic to treat syphili penicillin g
what antibiot combin is use to treat viridan streptococcus endocard [...] what antibiot combin is use to treat viridan streptococcus endocard penicillin + gentamycin
what is the hematolog toxic of penicillin [...] what is the hematolog toxic of penicillin direct coombs-posit hemolyt anaemia
which protein are mutat in methicillin-resist staphylococcus aureus (mrsa) [...] which protein are mutat in methicillin-resist staphylococcus aureus (mrsa) penicillin  protein (pbps)
90-95% of staphylococcus strain are resist to the antibiot [...] due to beta-lactamas expression. 90-95% of staphylococcus strain are resist to the antibiot penicillin g due to beta-lactamas expression.
what is the roa of penicillin g [...] what is the roa of penicillin g parenter onli
[...] is a narrow spectrum beta-lactam that is use against most g+ bacteria. it can also caus hypersensit reactions. penicillin g is a narrow spectrum beta-lactam that is use against most g+ bacteria. it can also caus hypersensit reactions.
[...] is a type of penicillin g that is use as a prophylaxi against rheumat fever and rheumat heart disease. benzathin penicillin g is a type of penicillin g that is use as a prophylaxi against rheumat fever and rheumat heart disease.
what is the prophylact treatment for strep pharyng in a child with prior histori of rheumat fever [...] what is the prophylact treatment for strep pharyng in a child with prior histori of rheumat fever oral penicillin
what is the prophylact treatment for syphili [...] what is the prophylact treatment for syphili benzathin penicillin g
what is the prophylact treatment for endocard with surgical/dent procedur [...] what is the prophylact treatment for endocard with surgical/dent procedur penicillin
which type of bacteria are treat by penicillin g and v [...] which type of bacteria are treat by penicillin g and v most gram-positive( streptococcus pneumoniae; streptococcus pyogenes; actinomyc ); also neisseria meningitidi and treponema pallidum
what is the treatment for actinomyc spp. infect [...] what is the treatment for actinomyc spp. infect penicillin
what is the roa of penicillin g [...] what is the roa of penicillin g iv or im
[...] is a renal complic of beta-lactamas resist penicillin (nafcillin/oxacillin/dicloxacillin) administration. interstiti nephriti is a renal complic of beta-lactamas resist penicillin (nafcillin/oxacillin/dicloxacillin) administration.
what is the clinic use of beta-lactamas resist penicillin (nafcillin/oxacillin/dicloxacillin) [...] what is the clinic use of beta-lactamas resist penicillin (nafcillin/oxacillin/dicloxacillin) staphylococcus aureus (except for mrsa) "use naf to kill staph "
what is the moa of penicillin [...] what is the moa of penicillin inhibit of transpeptidase, therebi inhibit peptidoglycan cross-linking;  of autolyt enzym
what is the roa of penicillin v [...] what is the roa of penicillin v oral
what is the treatment for neisseria meningitidi [...] what is the treatment for neisseria meningitidi ceftriaxon (or penicillin g)
how doe penicillin g affect gram-neg bacteria [...] how doe penicillin g affect gram-neg bacteria no effect gram-neg are resist to penicillin g as the outer membran layer inhibit entry.
[...] is a hematolog complic of penicillin g and v use. hemolyt anaemia is a hematolog complic of penicillin g and v use.
what is the roa of phenoxymethyl penicillin v [...] what is the roa of phenoxymethyl penicillin v oral (as it is acid resistant)
methicillin, nafcillin and oxacillin are all exampl of [...] -resist penicillins. methicillin, nafcillin and oxacillin are all exampl of beta-lactamas -resist penicillins. i met a na sti ox with a beta-lactam ring around it neck.
what is the doc for mssa respiratori infect [...] what is the doc for mssa respiratori infect nafcillin or dicloxacllin
[...] and dicloxacillin are penicillin that are resist to staphylococc beta-lactamase. nafcillin and dicloxacillin are penicillin that are resist to staphylococc beta-lactamase.
nafcillin and [...] are penicillin that are resist to staphylococc beta-lactamase. nafcillin and dicloxacillin are penicillin that are resist to staphylococc beta-lactamase.
what signific advers effect is associ with nafcillin [...] what signific advers effect is associ with nafcillin hypersensit reactions, interstiti nephriti
[...] is the drug of choic for veri sever s. aureus infect such as endocarditis, cellul and sepsis. nafcillin is the drug of choic for veri sever s. aureus infect such as endocarditis, cellul and sepsis.
what kind of antibiot is nafcillin [...] what kind of antibiot is nafcillin beta-lactamas resist penicillin
what is the roa of nafcillin and oxacillin [...] what is the roa of nafcillin and oxacillin parenter
[...] is a beta-lactam that is resist to beta-lactamase. nafcillin is a beta-lactam that is resist to beta-lactamase.
[...] , oxacillin and dicloxacillin are beta-lactamas resist penicillin that resist penicillinas action due to a bulki r-group that  access to the beta-lactam ring. nafcillin , oxacillin and dicloxacillin are beta-lactamas resist penicillin that resist penicillinas action due to a bulki r-group that  access to the beta-lactam ring.
nafcillin, [...] and dicloxacillin are beta-lactamas resist penicillin that resist penicillinas action due to a bulki r-group that  access to the beta-lactam ring. nafcillin, oxacillin and dicloxacillin are beta-lactamas resist penicillin that resist penicillinas action due to a bulki r-group that  access to the beta-lactam ring.
nafcillin, oxacillin and [...] are beta-lactamas resist penicillin that resist penicillinas action due to a bulki r-group that  access to the beta-lactam ring. nafcillin, oxacillin and dicloxacillin are beta-lactamas resist penicillin that resist penicillinas action due to a bulki r-group that  access to the beta-lactam ring.
what kind of antibiot is dicloxacillin [...] what kind of antibiot is dicloxacillin beta-lactamas resist penicillin
what kind of antibiot is oxacillin [...] what kind of antibiot is oxacillin beta-lactamas resist penicillin
what is the roa of dicloxacillin [...] what is the roa of dicloxacillin oral "that hoe love put clox in her mouth"
what is the moa of oxacillin [...] what is the moa of oxacillin inhibit of transpeptidase, therebi inhibit peptidoglycan cross-link
what antibiot are part of augmentin [...] what antibiot are part of augmentin amoxicillin and clavulan
what kind of antibiot is amoxicillin [...] what kind of antibiot is amoxicillin aminopenicillin
what is the doc for listeria monocytogen [...] what is the doc for listeria monocytogen ampicillin/amoxicillin (aminopenicillins)
[...] and amoxicillin are 2 aminopenicillin that are the doc for listeria monocytogen . ampicillin and amoxicillin are 2 aminopenicillin that are the doc for listeria monocytogen .
ampicillin and [...] are 2 aminopenicillin that are the doc for listeria monocytogen . ampicillin and amoxicillin are 2 aminopenicillin that are the doc for listeria monocytogen .
[...] and [...] are aminopenicillin that are suscept to beta-lactamases. ampicillin and amoxicillin are aminopenicillin that are suscept to beta-lactamases.
what is the treatment for helicobact pylori infect [...] what is the treatment for helicobact pylori infect tripl therapy: ppi + clarithromycin + amoxicillin/metronidazol
what kind of antibiot is ampicillin [...] what kind of antibiot is ampicillin aminopenicillin
what is a signific advers effect associ with ampicillin [...] what is a signific advers effect associ with ampicillin pseudomembran coliti
what is the empir treatment for infants, immunocompromis patient and the elder with suspect mening from listeria monocytogen [...] what is the empir treatment for infants, immunocompromis patient and the elder with suspect mening from listeria monocytogen ampicillin
[...] is a broad spectrum beta-lactam that is use primarili for g+ bacteria. it is especi effect against enterococci. ampicillin is a broad spectrum beta-lactam that is use primarili for g+ bacteria. it is especi effect against enterococci. ampicillin "helpss kill enterococci" h. influenzae, e. coli, listeria monocytogenes, proteus mirabilis, salmonella, shigella
what kind of antibiot is ampicillin (general) [...] what kind of antibiot is ampicillin (general) beta-lactam
[...] is an aminopenicillin whose absorpt is impair by food intake. ampicillin is an aminopenicillin whose absorpt is impair by food intake.
what type of antibiot is piperacillin [...] what type of antibiot is piperacillin antipseudomon penicillin
[...] is an antipseudomon penicillin that is suscept to beta-lactamase. piperacillin is an antipseudomon penicillin that is suscept to beta-lactamase.
[...] is an anti-pseudomon penicillin that is high effect against pseudomona aeruginosa and other gram-neg bacilli. piperacillin is an anti-pseudomon penicillin that is high effect against pseudomona aeruginosa and other gram-neg bacilli.
what is the signific advers effect associ with piperacillin [...] what is the signific advers effect associ with piperacillin hemorrhag (due to interact with platelet function)
[...] and piperacillin are antipseudomon penicillin use to treat pseudomona spp. infect and gram-neg rods. ticarcillin and piperacillin are antipseudomon penicillin use to treat pseudomona spp. infect and gram-neg rods. extend spectrum. beta-lactamas sensitive. use with beta-lactamas inhibitors.
ticarcillin and [...] are antipseudomon penicillin use to treat pseudomona spp. infect and gram-neg rods. ticarcillin and piperacillin are antipseudomon penicillin use to treat pseudomona spp. infect and gram-neg rods. extend spectrum. beta-lactamas sensitive. use with beta-lactamas inhibitors.
what is the moa of piperacillin [...] what is the moa of piperacillin inhibit of transpeptidase, therebi inhibit the cross-link of peptidoglycan
what is the moa of ticarcillin [...] what is the moa of ticarcillin inhibit of transpeptidase, therebi inhibit peptidoglycan cross-link
what is the moa of clavulan [...] what is the moa of clavulan inhibit of beta-lactamas
[...] and sulbactam are beta-lactamas inhibitor that are use in combin with beta-lactam antibiotics. clavulan and sulbactam are beta-lactamas inhibitor that are use in combin with beta-lactam antibiotics.
clavulan and [...] are beta-lactamas inhibitor that are use in combin with beta-lactam antibiotics. clavulan and sulbactam are beta-lactamas inhibitor that are use in combin with beta-lactam antibiotics.
what is the moa of clavulan and sulbactam [...] what is the moa of clavulan and sulbactam inhibit of beta-lactamas
[...] is a beta-lactamas inhibitor that is given in conjunct with beta-lactam to facilit their action. clavulan is a beta-lactamas inhibitor that is given in conjunct with beta-lactam to facilit their action.
which beta-lactamas inhibitor has a wider spectrum of  [...] which beta-lactamas inhibitor has a wider spectrum of  clavulan
what is the moa of sulbactam [...] what is the moa of sulbactam inhibit of beta-lactamas
[...] , sulbactam and tazobactam are beta-lactamas inhibitor that are often ad to penicillin antibiot to protect them from beta-lactamas action. clavulan acid , sulbactam and tazobactam are beta-lactamas inhibitor that are often ad to penicillin antibiot to protect them from beta-lactamas action.
clavulan acid, [...] and tazobactam are beta-lactamas inhibitor that are often ad to penicillin antibiot to protect them from beta-lactamas action. clavulan acid, sulbactam and tazobactam are beta-lactamas inhibitor that are often ad to penicillin antibiot to protect them from beta-lactamas action.
clavulan acid, sulbactam and [...] are beta-lactamas inhibitor that are often ad to penicillin antibiot to protect them from beta-lactamas action. clavulan acid, sulbactam and tazobactam are beta-lactamas inhibitor that are often ad to penicillin antibiot to protect them from beta-lactamas action.
[...] is a 1st generat cephalosporin beta-lactam use against proteus, e. coli and klebsiella . cephalexin is a 1st generat cephalosporin beta-lactam use against proteus, e. coli and klebsiella . "peck"
what generat cephalosporin in cephalexin [...] what generat cephalosporin in cephalexin 1st
cephalexin is effect against gram- [...] respiratori infections. cephalexin is effect against gram- posit respiratori infections. it is ineffect against lame: listeria, atypicals, mycoplasma and enterococci
what generat cephalosporin is cephalexin [...] what generat cephalosporin is cephalexin 1
what is the roa of cephalexin [...] what is the roa of cephalexin oral
what is the roa of cefazolin [...] what is the roa of cefazolin parenter
[...] is a 1st generat cephalosporin use in surgic prophylaxis. cefazolin is a 1st generat cephalosporin use in surgic prophylaxis.
what generat cephalosporin is cefuroxim [...] what generat cephalosporin is cefuroxim 2 "fur, fox, tea"
what generat cephalosporin is cefuroxim [...] what generat cephalosporin is cefuroxim 2nd
what generat cephalosporin is cefaclor [...] what generat cephalosporin is cefaclor 2nd
what generat cephalosporin is cefoxitin [...] what generat cephalosporin is cefoxitin 2nd "fur, fox, tea"
[...] and cefoxitin are 2nd generat cephalosporin use in mix anaerob infect such as periton and pelvic inflammatori disease. cefotetan and cefoxitin are 2nd generat cephalosporin use in mix anaerob infect such as periton and pelvic inflammatori disease.
cefotetan and [...] are 2nd generat cephalosporin use in mix anaerob infect such as periton and pelvic inflammatori disease. cefotetan and cefoxitin are 2nd generat cephalosporin use in mix anaerob infect such as periton and pelvic inflammatori disease.
[...] and cefoxitin are 2nd generat cephalosporin that are use to treat bacteroid fragilis. cefotetan and cefoxitin are 2nd generat cephalosporin that are use to treat bacteroid fragilis.
cefotetan and [...] are 2nd generat cephalosporin that are use to treat bacteroid fragilis. cefotetan and cefoxitin are 2nd generat cephalosporin that are use to treat bacteroid fragilis.
what generat cephalosporin is cefotetan [...] what generat cephalosporin is cefotetan 2nd "fur, fox, tea"
[...] is a 2nd generat cephalosporin that is associ with disulfiram-lik reaction and hemorrhaging. cefotetan is a 2nd generat cephalosporin that is associ with disulfiram-lik reaction and hemorrhaging.
which 3rd generat cephalosporin is use to treat mening and gonorrhea [...] which 3rd generat cephalosporin is use to treat mening and gonorrhea ceftriaxon
what is the classic treatment of: neisseria gonorrhoea ceftriaxon (add doxycyclin to cover like concurr chlamydia)
what is the classic treatment of: neisseria meningitidi penicillin/ceftriaxone, rifampin (prophylaxis)
[...] is a 3rd generat cephalosporin beta-lactam that is effect against penicillin resist pneumococci. ceftriaxon is a 3rd generat cephalosporin beta-lactam that is effect against penicillin resist pneumococci.
[...] is the antibiot of choic to treat gonorrhea and acut otiti media. ceftriaxon is the antibiot of choic to treat gonorrhea and acut otiti media.
what generat cephalosporin in ceftriaxon [...] what generat cephalosporin in ceftriaxon 3rd
what generat cephalosporin is ceftriaxon [...] what generat cephalosporin is ceftriaxon 3rd
[...] is a 3rd generat cephalosporin that is avoid in neonat as it compet for bilirubin  site on albumin, therebi caus jaundic or exacerb physiolog jaundice. ceftriaxon is a 3rd generat cephalosporin that is avoid in neonat as it compet for bilirubin  site on albumin, therebi caus jaundic or exacerb physiolog jaundice.
which antibiot is the drug of choic for gonorrhea [...] which antibiot is the drug of choic for gonorrhea ceftriaxon
[...] and cefotaxim are 3rd generat cephalosporin that treat mening caus by haemophilus influenza , pneumococcus and meningococcus. ceftriaxon and cefotaxim are 3rd generat cephalosporin that treat mening caus by haemophilus influenza , pneumococcus and meningococcus. main due to good bbb penetration.
ceftriaxon and [...] are 3rd generat cephalosporin that treat mening caus by haemophilus influenza , pneumococcus and meningococcus. ceftriaxon and cefotaxim are 3rd generat cephalosporin that treat mening caus by haemophilus influenza , pneumococcus and meningococcus. main due to good bbb penetration.
[...] is a 3rd generat cephalosporin that treat typhoid fever caus by salmonella typhi . ceftriaxon is a 3rd generat cephalosporin that treat typhoid fever caus by salmonella typhi .
[...] is a 3rd generat cephalosporin that is use to treat acut otiti media caus by pneumococcus and h. influenza . ceftriaxon is a 3rd generat cephalosporin that is use to treat acut otiti media caus by pneumococcus and h. influenza .
what is the treatment for mening caus by haemophilus influenza [...] what is the treatment for mening caus by haemophilus influenza ceftriaxon rifampin can be use for prophylaxi follow close contact.
what is the treatment for lyme diseas [...] what is the treatment for lyme diseas doxycycline; ceftriaxon
what generat cephalosporin is ceftriaxon [...] what generat cephalosporin is ceftriaxon 3rd
what is the prophylact treatment for gonorrhea [...] what is the prophylact treatment for gonorrhea ceftriaxon
what generat cephalosporin is cefotaxim [...] what generat cephalosporin is cefotaxim 3rd
what generat cephalosporin is cefotaxim [...] what generat cephalosporin is cefotaxim 3rd
[...] is a 3rd generat cephalosporin use in pseudomona infections. ceftazidim is a 3rd generat cephalosporin use in pseudomona infections.
what generat cephalosporin is ceftazidim [...] what generat cephalosporin is ceftazidim 3rd
[...] is a 4th generat cephalosporin beta-lactam that is primarili use to treat pseudomona spp. infection. cefepim is a 4th generat cephalosporin beta-lactam that is primarili use to treat pseudomona spp. infection.
what generat cephalosporin is cefepim [...] what generat cephalosporin is cefepim 4th
[...] is a 4th generat cephalosporin that is use in staphylococcus and pseudomona infection. cefepim is a 4th generat cephalosporin that is use in staphylococcus and pseudomona infection.
[...] is a 4th generat cephalosporin that is use in pseudomona infections. cefepim is a 4th generat cephalosporin that is use in pseudomona infections.
what generat cephalosporin is cefepim [...] what generat cephalosporin is cefepim 4th
which organ are typic not cover by cephalosporin [...] which organ are typic not cover by cephalosporin listera , atyp ( chlamydia, mycoplasma ), mrsa and enterococci the except is ceftarolin (5th gen) which cover mrsa. " lame " - listeria - atyp (chlamydia, mycoplasma) - mrsa - enterococci
what generat cephalosporin is ceftarolin [...] what generat cephalosporin is ceftarolin 5th
which antibiot can inhibit peptidoglycan cross-link b-lactam antibiot (penicilin, cephalosporin, carbapenems, monobactams)
which antibiot has the broadest  [...] which antibiot has the broadest  imipenem
what type of antibiot is imipenem [...] what type of antibiot is imipenem carbapanem penicillin
[...] is a bacteri enzym that hydrolyz the antibiot imipenem. dehydropeptidase-1 (dhp-1) is a bacteri enzym that hydrolyz the antibiot imipenem.
dehydropeptidase-1 (dhp-1) is a bacteri enzym that hydrolyz the antibiot [...] . dehydropeptidase-1 (dhp-1) is a bacteri enzym that hydrolyz the antibiot imipenem .
which bacteri enzym hydrolyz the antibiot imipenem [...] which bacteri enzym hydrolyz the antibiot imipenem dehydropeptidase-1 (dhp-1)
[...] is a drug that is co-administ with imipenem as it inhibit dehydropeptidase-1 (dhp-1), a bacteri enzym that hydrolyz imipenem. cilastatin is a drug that is co-administ with imipenem as it inhibit dehydropeptidase-1 (dhp-1), a bacteri enzym that hydrolyz imipenem.
which antibiot is the drug of choic for enterobact infect [...] which antibiot is the drug of choic for enterobact infect imipenem
[...] is a carbapanem antibiot that is effect against mani bacteria and is use to knock out infect that are tough to treat. imipenem is a carbapanem antibiot that is effect against mani bacteria and is use to knock out infect that are tough to treat.
what is the cns toxic of imipenem/cilastatin [...] what is the cns toxic of imipenem/cilastatin seizur
what type of antibiot is meropenem [...] what type of antibiot is meropenem carbapanem penicillin
[...] is a carbapanem antibiot that doe not need to be coadminist with cilastatin. meropenem is a carbapanem antibiot that doe not need to be coadminist with cilastatin.
which carbapanem antibiot has less cns toxic [...] which carbapanem antibiot has less cns toxic meropenem
which carbapanem antibiot has a decreas risk of caus seizur [...] which carbapanem antibiot has a decreas risk of caus seizur meropenem meropenem is also stabl to renal dehydropeptidas i
[...] is a monobactam beta-lactam that is use to treat g- rods. aztreonam is a monobactam beta-lactam that is use to treat g- rods.
what type of antibiot is aztreonam [...] what type of antibiot is aztreonam monobactam
[...] is a monobactam antibiot that onli affect gram-neg bacteria. aztreonam is a monobactam antibiot that onli affect gram-neg bacteria.
[...] is a monobactam antibiot that is use against hospit acquir gram-neg infect (esp. haemophilus influenza and pseudomona aeruginosa ). aztreonam is a monobactam antibiot that is use against hospit acquir gram-neg infect (esp. haemophilus influenza and pseudomona aeruginosa ).
[...] is a monobactam antibiot that can be use in patient with penicillin allergi as it onli involv 1 beta-lactam ring and henc  differently. aztreonam is a monobactam antibiot that can be use in patient with penicillin allergi as it onli involv 1 beta-lactam ring and henc  differently.
[...] is a monobactam antibiot that is consid the silver-bullet against gram negatives. aztreonam is a monobactam antibiot that is consid the silver-bullet against gram negatives.
[...] is a monobactam antibiot that precent peptidoglycan cross-link by  to penicillin- protein 3 . aztreonam is a monobactam antibiot that precent peptidoglycan cross-link by  to penicillin- protein 3 . resist to beta-lactamas
what is the clinic use of monobactam (aztreonam) [...] what is the clinic use of monobactam (aztreonam) gram-neg rod onli monobactam are ineffect against gram-posit and anerobes.
which penicillin- protein doe aztreonam  to in order to prevent peptidoglycan cross-link [...] which penicillin- protein doe aztreonam  to in order to prevent peptidoglycan cross-link penicillin- protein 3
what is the moa of aztreonam [...] what is the moa of aztreonam prevent of peptidoglycan cross-link by  to penicillin- protein 3 synergist with aminoglycosides.
what is the most common bacteri caus of myocard what is the most common bacteri caus of myocard borrelia burgdorferi ; lyme diseas
what is the etiolog of lyme diseas what is the etiolog of lyme diseas borrelia burgdorferi
which vector transmit lyme diseas ( borrelia burgdorferi ) which vector transmit lyme diseas ( borrelia burgdorferi ) ixod tick
which bug is associ with caus cn vii (facial nerve) palsi which bug is associ with caus cn vii (facial nerve) palsi borrelia burgdorferi (lyme disease)
which cranial nerv palsi is associ with lyme diseas ( borrelia burgdorferi ) which cranial nerv palsi is associ with lyme diseas ( borrelia burgdorferi ) facial nerv palsi
___ is an infecti diseas caus by leptospira interrogan that present with flu-lik symptoms, jaundic and photophobia with conjunctiv suffus (erythema without exudate). ___ is an infecti diseas caus by leptospira interrogan that present with flu-lik symptoms, jaundic and photophobia with conjunctiv suffus (erythema without exudate). leptospirosi
which demograph show a high preval of leptospirosi ( leptospira interrogan ) which demograph show a high preval of leptospirosi ( leptospira interrogan ) surfers; tropic henc hawaii is a big hot spot.
__ is a sever  of leptospirosi that present with jaundic and azotemia from liver and renal dysfunction. __ is a sever  of leptospirosi that present with jaundic and azotemia from liver and renal dysfunction. weil diseas (icterohemorrhag leptospirosis) also involv fever, hemorrhag and anaemia .
what type of microscopi is requir to visual treponema pallidum in the fluid from syphili chancr what type of microscopi is requir to visual treponema pallidum in the fluid from syphili chancr dark-field microscopi
degener of dorsal column nerv degener of dorsal column nerv tabe dorsal is (3° syphil is), subacut combin degener (dorsal column and later corticospin tract affected)
__ is a  of syphili that present as a dissemin diseas with a maculopapular rash on the palm and sole . __ is a  of syphili that present as a dissemin diseas with a maculopapular rash on the palm and sole . s econdari = s ystemic
___ are a morpholog featur of congenit syphili that are describ as multipl round rudimentari enamel cusp on the perman first molars. ___ are a morpholog featur of congenit syphili that are describ as multipl round rudimentari enamel cusp on the perman first molars. mulberri molar
fever, chills, headache, myalgia follow antibiot treatment for syphili fever, chills, headache, myalgia follow antibiot treatment for syphili jarisch-herxheim reaction (rapid lysi of spirochet  in toxin release)
indurated, ulcer genit lesion nonpainful: indurated, ulcer genit lesion nonpainful: chancr (1° syphilis, treponema pallidwn)
rash on palm and sole rash on palm and sole coxsacki a, secondari syphilis, rocki mountain spot fever
aortic aneurysm, arch aortic aneurysm, arch tertiari syphili (syphil itic aortitis), vasa vasorum destruct
___ is a morpholog featur of congenit syphili that present as a sharp anterior bow of the tibia. ___ is a morpholog featur of congenit syphili that present as a sharp anterior bow of the tibia. saber shin
what type of aortic aneurysm is associ with 3 o syphili (oblit endarter of the vasa vasorum) [...] what type of aortic aneurysm is associ with 3 o syphili (oblit endarter of the vasa vasorum) thorac aortic aneurysm (luetic aneurysm)
pupil accommod but doesn't react pupil accommod but doesn't react argyl robertson pupil (neurosyphilis)
_____ is a morpholog featur of congenit syphili that present with a loss of height of the nose due to a collaps nose bridg (nasal dorsum). _____ is a morpholog featur of congenit syphili that present with a loss of height of the nose due to a collaps nose bridg (nasal dorsum). saddl nose
smooth, flat, moist, painless white lesion on genit smooth, flat, moist, painless white lesion on genit condylomata lata (2° syphilis)
___ is a morpholog featur of congenit syphili that is describ as teeth that are notch , smaller and more wide space than normal. ___ is a morpholog featur of congenit syphili that is describ as teeth that are notch , smaller and more wide space than normal. hutchinson teeth
which type of syphili is associ with hutchinson teeth which type of syphili is associ with hutchinson teeth congenit syphili
___ is a type of condyloma caus by syphilis. ___ is a type of condyloma caus by syphilis. condyloma latum
___ is a type of syphili that present with painless chancr . ___ is a type of syphili that present with painless chancr . primari syphili
___ is a cardiac disord that aris due to tertiari syphili that disrupt the vasa vasorum of the aorta , therebi caus atrophi of the vessel wall and dilat of the aorta/aort valv ring. ___ is a cardiac disord that aris due to tertiari syphili that disrupt the vasa vasorum of the aorta , therebi caus atrophi of the vessel wall and dilat of the aorta/aort valv ring. syphilit heart disease} can henc  in aneursm of the ascend aorta or aortic arch or aortic insuffici (regurge).
__ is a complic of tertiari syphili that present due to destruct of the vasa vasorum at larg blood vessels. __ is a complic of tertiari syphili that present due to destruct of the vasa vasorum at larg blood vessels. aortiti
what  of syphili is associ with broad-bas ataxia and a posit romberg sign what  of syphili is associ with broad-bas ataxia and a posit romberg sign tertiari syphilis; neurosyphili
__ is a torch infect that often  in stillbirth through hydrop fetali . __ is a torch infect that often  in stillbirth through hydrop fetali . syphili
which torch infect is associ with saber shin which torch infect is associ with saber shin syphili
what is the etiolog of syphili what is the etiolog of syphili treponema pallidum
___ is a spinal cord lesion that is caus by tertiari syphili and involv degener of the dorsal column and root . ___ is a spinal cord lesion that is caus by tertiari syphili and involv degener of the dorsal column and root . tabe dorsali henc this will present with impair sensat and propriocept and progress sensori ataxia .
______ aneurysm due to tertiari syphili yield a characterist tree-bark appear of the aorta. ______ aneurysm due to tertiari syphili yield a characterist tree-bark appear of the aorta. thorac
___ is a bacteria that caus syphili which initi involv small, painless indur vulval/vagin papules. ___ is a bacteria that caus syphili which initi involv small, painless indur vulval/vagin papules. treponema pallidum later stage involv multiple, moist, warty, vulvovagin and perin lesion (condylomata lata).
__ is a type of syphili that present with localized, painless chancres. __ is a type of syphili that present with localized, painless chancres. primari syphili sorry, but you knew there was go to be a dick pic when it came to syphilis...
___ is a  of syphili that present with condylomata lata . ___ is a  of syphili that present with condylomata lata . secondari syphili these can also be confirm via dark-field microscopi onc the treponem have been sampled. s econdari = s ystemic
__ is a  of syphili that present with gumma (chronic granuloma that ). __ is a  of syphili that present with gumma (chronic granuloma that ). tertiari syphili
___ is a  of syphili that present with aortiti that occur due to destruct of the vasa vasorum. ___ is a  of syphili that present with aortiti that occur due to destruct of the vasa vasorum. tertiari syphili
__ is a featur of tertiari syphili that is describ as a patholog pupil that show accommod but doe not react to light . __ is a featur of tertiari syphili that is describ as a patholog pupil that show accommod but doe not react to light . argyll-robertson pupil i.e. the pupil constrict to focus on a near object, but doe not contrict when expos to bright light. aka prostitut pupil (lol, no lie, it on page 142 of first aid)
what  of syphili is associ with charcot joint (neuropath arthropathy) what  of syphili is associ with charcot joint (neuropath arthropathy) tertiari syphilis; neurosyphili charcot joint involv progress degener of a weight bear joint due to decreas peripher sensation/proprioception/motor control (e.g. neurosyphilis).
which  of syphili present with stroke without hypertens which  of syphili present with stroke without hypertens tertiari syphili
__ is a  of syphili that present with saber shin and saddl nose . __ is a  of syphili that present with saber shin and saddl nose . congenit syphili can be prevent by earli treatment in the mother, as placent transmiss typic occur after the first trimester.
which  of syphili is associ with cn viii (vestibulocochlear nerve) deaf which  of syphili is associ with cn viii (vestibulocochlear nerve) deaf congenit syphili
__ is a non-specif test for syphili that involv mani fals posit test s. __ is a non-specif test for syphili that involv mani fals posit test s.
which torch infect is associ with hutchinson teeth , a congenit dental mal involv notches, wide shape central incisor which torch infect is associ with hutchinson teeth , a congenit dental mal involv notches, wide shape central incisor syphili
___ are a facial mal seen in congenit syphili that are describ as linear scare at the angl of the mouth . ___ are a facial mal seen in congenit syphili that are describ as linear scare at the angl of the mouth . rhagad
___ is a featur of congenit syphili that is describ as nasal discharg full of syphili spirochet . ___ is a featur of congenit syphili that is describ as nasal discharg full of syphili spirochet . snuffl
which torch infect is associ with cnviii deaf which torch infect is associ with cnviii deaf syphili
which torch infect is associ with saddl nose and a short maxilla which torch infect is associ with saddl nose and a short maxilla syphili
___ is a type of syphili that present with fever, lymphadenopathy, skin rash and condylomata lata . ___ is a type of syphili that present with fever, lymphadenopathy, skin rash and condylomata lata . secondari syphili
__ is a type of syphili that present with gummas, tabe dorsalis, general paresis, aortiti and argyll-robertson pupil . __ is a type of syphili that present with gummas, tabe dorsalis, general paresis, aortiti and argyll-robertson pupil . tertiari syphili
which complement defici is associ with increas risk for neisseria infect which complement defici is associ with increas risk for neisseria infect c5-c9
what is the catalas expresison of neisseria what is the catalas expresison of neisseria posit "staph 's n ' enterobacteria a re list ed c atalas p ositive" staphylococcus neisseria enterobacteria aspergillus listeria candida pseudmona (and mtb)
___ are a group of complement protein defici that involv increas suscept to recurr neisseria bacteremia. ___ are a group of complement protein defici that involv increas suscept to recurr neisseria bacteremia. c5-c9 defici
__ is a genus of gram-neg bacteri that common caus infect in complement defici as there is no membran attack complex. __ is a genus of gram-neg bacteri that common caus infect in complement defici as there is no membran attack complex. neisseria
__ is a protein secret by neisseria spp. that function to cleav secret host iga. __ is a protein secret by neisseria spp. that function to cleav secret host iga. iga proteas
what is the gram stain of neisseria what is the gram stain of neisseria negat neisseria is also basic the onli clinic relev gram-neg coccus .
__ is an antibiot use in thayer-martin (vpn) media that inhibit gram-neg organ except for neisseria . __ is an antibiot use in thayer-martin (vpn) media that inhibit gram-neg organ except for neisseria . polymyxin
what is the most common caus of bacteri mening in teen what is the most common caus of bacteri mening in teen neisseria meningitidi
__ is a speci of neisseria that is encapsulated. __ is a speci of neisseria that is encapsulated. neisseria meningitidi
what is the etiolog of meningococcemia what is the etiolog of meningococcemia neisseria meningitidi
which serotyp of neisseria meningitidi lack a vaccin which serotyp of neisseria meningitidi lack a vaccin type b
how do csf protein level chang in bacteri mening how do csf protein level chang in bacteri mening
how do csf glucos level chang in bacteri mening how do csf glucos level chang in bacteri mening decreas
how do the level of pmns chang in bacteri mening how do the level of pmns chang in bacteri mening inc
which speci of neisseria ferment glucos and maltos which speci of neisseria ferment glucos and maltos neisseria meningitidi m enin g ococcus = m altos and g lucos
how is neisseria meningitidi transmit how is neisseria meningitidi transmit respiratori and oral secret
how doe open pressur chang in bacteri mening how doe open pressur chang in bacteri mening increas
which speci of neisseria has a polysaccharid capsul which speci of neisseria has a polysaccharid capsul neisseria meningitidi gonococcus doe not have a polysaccharid capsule.
neonat conjunct caus by ___ is a medic emerg due to the possibl of sever ulceration, perfor and sever blindness. neonat conjunct caus by ___ is a medic emerg due to the possibl of sever ulceration, perfor and sever blindness. neisseria gonorrhea must be treat immediately; may also occur with neisseria meningitidi
what bacteri speci is common associ with waterhouse-friderichsen syndrom what bacteri speci is common associ with waterhouse-friderichsen syndrom neisseria meningitidi septicemia or endotox shock caus dic and hemorrhag into the adrenals.
bacteri mening (adult and elderly) bacteri mening (adult and elderly) streptococcus pnewnonia
which generat of cephalosporin are the best at cross the bbb which generat of cephalosporin are the best at cross the bbb 3rd hence, they are great for bacteri meningitis.
sexual transmit diseas sexual transmit diseas chlamydia (usual coinfectecl with gonorrhea)
what is the etiolog of gonorrhea what is the etiolog of gonorrhea neisseria gonorrhoea
pelvic inflammatori diseas - caus pelvic inflammatori diseas - caus chlamydia trachomatis, neisseria gonorrhoea
what is the most common caus of infect arthriti in sexual  young adult what is the most common caus of infect arthriti in sexual  young adult neisseria gonorrhea
which bacteria often caus acut pelvic inflammatori diseas (pid) which bacteria often caus acut pelvic inflammatori diseas (pid) neisseria gonorrhoea
___ + ___ are the 2 most common caus of acut prostat in young adults. ___ + ___ are the 2 most common caus of acut prostat in young adults. chlamydia trachomati , neisseria gonorrhea
___ are a type of antibiot that are no longer recommend for the treatment of gonorrhea due to increas resist rates. ___ are a type of antibiot that are no longer recommend for the treatment of gonorrhea due to increas resist rates. fluoroquinolon
which bacteria is associ with osteomyel in sexual  patients, albeit rare which bacteria is associ with osteomyel in sexual  patients, albeit rare neisseria gonorrhoea osteomyel is quit rare. septic arthriti is far more common.
what bacteri speci is common the caus of osteomyel in sexual  young adult what bacteri speci is common the caus of osteomyel in sexual  young adult neisseria gonorrhoea
which speci of neisseria ferment glucos onli which speci of neisseria ferment glucos onli neisseria gonorrhea g onococcus = g lucos onli
which speci of neisseria is often found intracellular in neutrophil which speci of neisseria is often found intracellular in neutrophil neisseria gonorrhea
___ is a speci of neisseria that has no vaccin due to rapid antigen variat of pilus proteins. ___ is a speci of neisseria that has no vaccin due to rapid antigen variat of pilus proteins. neisseria gonorrhoea
how is neisseria gonorrhoea transmit how is neisseria gonorrhoea transmit sexual
__ is a rare complic of pelvic inflammatori diseas (pid) caus by neisseria gonorrhoea that involv inflamm of the liver capsul and at of adhesions. __ is a rare complic of pelvic inflammatori diseas (pid) caus by neisseria gonorrhoea that involv inflamm of the liver capsul and at of adhesions. fitz-hugh-curti syndrom
__ is an ocular infect seen in neonat due to neisseria gonorrhoea infect dure childbirth. __ is an ocular infect seen in neonat due to neisseria gonorrhoea infect dure childbirth. neonat conjunct
__ is a musculoskelet complic of neisseria gonorrhoea infection. __ is a musculoskelet complic of neisseria gonorrhoea infection. septic arthriti
__ is an std caus by neisseria gonorrhea that present with urethritis, cervicitis, prostat and a creami purul discharg . __ is an std caus by neisseria gonorrhea that present with urethritis, cervicitis, prostat and a creami purul discharg . gonorrhea
which 2 bacteria are the most common caus of pelvic inflammatori diseas (pid) which 2 bacteria are the most common caus of pelvic inflammatori diseas (pid) chlamydia tranchomati (subacute; often undiagnosed); neisseria gonorrhoea
___ is a genitourinari disord caus by chlamydia trachomati and neisseria gonorrhea that present with purul cervic discharg . ___ is a genitourinari disord caus by chlamydia trachomati and neisseria gonorrhea that present with purul cervic discharg . pelvic inflammatori diseas (pid)
"thumb sign" on later x-ray "thumb sign" on later x-ray epiglott (haemophilus influenzae)
haemophilus influenza (b) (prophylaxis) haemophilus influenza (b) (prophylaxis) rifampin
what is the most common caus of laryngoepiglott what is the most common caus of laryngoepiglott haemophilus influenza
which coagul factor is defici in haemophilia a which coagul factor is defici in haemophilia a viii
__ is a bacteria that common caus secondari bronchopneumonia and bronchopneumonia in copd patients. __ is a bacteria that common caus secondari bronchopneumonia and bronchopneumonia in copd patients. haemophilus influenza
how is haemophilus influenza transmit how is haemophilus influenza transmit aerosol
onli __ strain of haemophilus influenza caus pneumonia onli __ strain of haemophilus influenza caus pneumonia encapsul
haemophilus influenza is a fastidi organ that grow on __ agar, as it contain essenti nutrient (v and x factor). haemophilus influenza is a fastidi organ that grow on __ agar, as it contain essenti nutrient (v and x factor). chocol
what kind of pneumonia doe haemophilus influenza caus what kind of pneumonia doe haemophilus influenza caus bronchopneumonia
__, __, and __are 3 gram-neg bacteria affect by 2nd generat cephalosporin in addit to proteus mirabilis, escherichia coli and klebsiella sp. __, __, and __are 3 gram-neg bacteria affect by 2nd generat cephalosporin in addit to proteus mirabilis, escherichia coli and klebsiella sp. haemophilus influenzae, neisseria meningitidis, serratia 2nd gen are hnpek
__ and __ are the 2 most common gram-neg bacteria that are superimpos onto acut viral rhinosinusitis. (1) __ and __ are the 2 most common gram-neg bacteria that are superimpos onto acut viral rhinosinusitis. (1) haemophilus influenzae, moraxella catarrhali
which strain of haemophilus influenza caus the most invas diseas which strain of haemophilus influenza caus the most invas diseas type b the h. influenza vaccin contain type b capsular polysaccharid conjug to diphtheria toxoid or anoth protein. it is given between 2 and 18 months. the non-typ strain caus mucos infect (e.g. otiti media, conjunctivitis, bronchitis).
_, _ and _ are bacteri speci associ with postvir pneumonia. _, _ and _ are bacteri speci associ with postvir pneumonia. staphylococcus, haemophilus influenzae, s treptococcus pneumonia
what is the gram stain of haemophilus what is the gram stain of haemophilus negat
__ is a protein made by haemophilus influenza that function to cleav secret host iga. __ is a protein made by haemophilus influenza that function to cleav secret host iga. iga proteas
__ is a featur of epiglott caus by haemophilus influenza that is seen on a later neck x-ray. __ is a featur of epiglott caus by haemophilus influenza that is seen on a later neck x-ray. thumbprint sign
__ is a bacteria that affect unimmun children that caus epiglott which present with an edemat "cherri red" epiglotti and a "thumbprint sign" on xray. __ is a bacteria that affect unimmun children that caus epiglott which present with an edemat "cherri red" epiglotti and a "thumbprint sign" on xray. haemophilus influenza type b the edemat epiglotti can caus difficulti breathing.
which special cultur media/agar is use to isol haemophilus influenza which special cultur media/agar is use to isol haemophilus influenza chocol agar with factor v (nad) and x
which bacteria are most like associ with a negat urinari ureas test in a uti which bacteria are most like associ with a negat urinari ureas test in a uti escherichia coli ; enterococcus spp
what is the most common caus of acut pyelonephr what is the most common caus of acut pyelonephr escherichia coli
what is the most common serotyp of enterohemorrhag escherichia coli (ehec) what is the most common serotyp of enterohemorrhag escherichia coli (ehec) o157:h7
__ and __ are the 2 most common caus of acut prostat in older adults. __ and __ are the 2 most common caus of acut prostat in older adults. escherichia coli and pseudomona sp.
which virul factor from escherichia coli allow it to caus septic shock which virul factor from escherichia coli allow it to caus septic shock lps endotoxin
__ is a strain of escherichia coli that adher to the apic surfac of gi epithelium, flatten villi and therebi caus malabsorpt . __ is a strain of escherichia coli that adher to the apic surfac of gi epithelium, flatten villi and therebi caus malabsorpt . enteropathogen escherichia coli epec caus wateri diarrhea, typic in children. e p ec = p ediatr patient
where in the bodi is escherichia coli normal found where in the bodi is escherichia coli normal found colon
which bacteria common caus pancreat abscess in acut pancreat which bacteria common caus pancreat abscess in acut pancreat escherichia coli
which bacteria is associ with overgrowth in the gallbladd wall due to impact stone in the cystic duct which bacteria is associ with overgrowth in the gallbladd wall due to impact stone in the cystic duct escherichia coli
what is the most common caus of cystiti what is the most common caus of cystiti escherichia coli
which special cultur media/agar other than macconkey agar is use to isol escherichia coli which special cultur media/agar other than macconkey agar is use to isol escherichia coli eosin-methylen blue (emb) as a green-metal sheen
what is the catalas express of escherichia coli what is the catalas express of escherichia coli posit
__ is an exotoxin from enterohemorrhag escherichia coli (ehec) that in the 60s ribosom by remov adenin from rrna. __ is an exotoxin from enterohemorrhag escherichia coli (ehec) that in the 60s ribosom by remov adenin from rrna. shiga-lik toxin (slt) includ the o157:h7 strain.
what is the moa of shiga-lik toxin (slt) from enterohemorrhag escherichia coli (ehec) what is the moa of shiga-lik toxin (slt) from enterohemorrhag escherichia coli (ehec) in of the 60s ribosom subunit by remoc adenin from rrna  in enhanc cytokin releas and hemolyt uremia syndrom (hus).
__ is an exotoxin from enterotoxigen escherichia coli (etec) that over adenyl cyclase, therebi caus increas cl secret and h2o efflux at the gut. __ is an exotoxin from enterotoxigen escherichia coli (etec) that over adenyl cyclase, therebi caus increas cl secret and h2o efflux at the gut. heat-labil toxin (lt) increas camp = increas cl secret and h2o efflux = wateri diarrhea
what is the moa of heat- labil toxin from enterotoxigen escherichia coli (etec) what is the moa of heat- labil toxin from enterotoxigen escherichia coli (etec) over of adenyl cyclase, therebi increas camp level and increas cl secret and h2o efflux in the gut
what is the moa of heat- stabl toxin from enterotoxigen escherichia coli (etec) what is the moa of heat- stabl toxin from enterotoxigen escherichia coli (etec)
__ + __ are 2 exotoxin from enterotoxigen escherichia coli (etec) that can caus wateri diarrhea by increas fluid secret at the gi epithelium. __ + __ are 2 exotoxin from enterotoxigen escherichia coli (etec) that can caus wateri diarrhea by increas fluid secret at the gi epithelium. heat- labil toxin heat- stabl toxin
what colour coloni do lactos ferment bacteria yield on eosin-methylen blue (emb) agar what colour coloni do lactos ferment bacteria yield on eosin-methylen blue (emb) agar purple/black escherichia coli grow purpl coloni with a green sheen.
which virul factor from escherichia coli allow it to caus cystiti and pyelonephr which virul factor from escherichia coli allow it to caus cystiti and pyelonephr fimbria
which virul factor from escherichia coli allow it to caus pneumonia and neonat mening which virul factor from escherichia coli allow it to caus pneumonia and neonat mening k capsul
__ is a strain of escherichia coli that produc both heat-labil and heat-stabl enterotoxins. __ is a strain of escherichia coli that produc both heat-labil and heat-stabl enterotoxins. enterotoxigen escherichia coli (etec) doe not caus inflamm and is not invas .
what is the etiolog of travel diarrhea what is the etiolog of travel diarrhea enterotoxigen escherichia coli (etec) wateri diarrhea. e t ec = t ravel diarrhea
__ is a strain of escherichia coli that produc a shiga-lik toxin that caus hemolyt uremia syndrom (hus). __ is a strain of escherichia coli that produc a shiga-lik toxin that caus hemolyt uremia syndrom (hus). enterohemorrhag escherichia coli (ehec) the toxin alon caus necrosi and inflammation, therebi caus dysentery.
__ is a hematological/ren complic of enterohemorrhag escherichia coli (ehec) infect that involv a triad of anaemia, thrombocytopaenia and acut renal failur . __ is a hematological/ren complic of enterohemorrhag escherichia coli (ehec) infect that involv a triad of anaemia, thrombocytopaenia and acut renal failur . hemolyt uremia syndrom (hus) microthrombi  on endothelium that is damag by the shiga-lik toxin. this then caus mechan hemolysi and at of schistocytes. that also caus a decreas in renal blood flow. additionally, the microthrombi  thrombocytopaenia due to the platelet usage.
__ is a strain of escherichia coli that is also refer to as shiga toxin-produc escherichia coli . __ is a strain of escherichia coli that is also refer to as shiga toxin-produc escherichia coli . enterohemorrhag escherichia coli (ehec)
which major strain of echerichia coli doe not ferment sorbitol which major strain of echerichia coli doe not ferment sorbitol enterohemorrhag escherichia coli (ehec) this is how you differenti ehec from other escherichia coli strains.
what food sourc is associ with escherichia coli o157:h7 food poison what food sourc is associ with escherichia coli o157:h7 food poison undercook meat
___, ___, and ___ are 3 nocosomi bacteri infect that have urinari catheter as a risk factor. ___, ___, and ___ are 3 nocosomi bacteri infect that have urinari catheter as a risk factor. escherichia coli, proteus mirabilis, klebsiella
what is the most common nocosomi uti infect what is the most common nocosomi uti infect escherichia coli
what is the gram stain of escherichia coli what is the gram stain of escherichia coli negat
__ is an exotoxin from enterotoxigen escherichia coli (etec) that over guanyl cyclase, therebi decreas nacl and h2o resorpt at the gut. __ is an exotoxin from enterotoxigen escherichia coli (etec) that over guanyl cyclase, therebi decreas nacl and h2o resorpt at the gut. heat-stabl toxin increas cgmp = decreas nacl and h2o resorpt = wateri diarrhea
__ is an enzym produc by escherichia coli that break down lactos into glucos and galactose. __ is an enzym produc by escherichia coli that break down lactos into glucos and galactose. beta-galactosidas
haemophilus influenza is a gram- ____ rod haemophilus influenza is a gram- ____ rod negat
what is the most common gram-neg bacteria that is superimpos onto acut viral rhinosinus what is the most common gram-neg bacteria that is superimpos onto acut viral rhinosinus haemophilus influenzae; moraxella catarrhali
__ is a speci of haemophilus that is encapsulated. __ is a speci of haemophilus that is encapsulated. haemophilus influenza type b
which encapsul microb are associ with infect in asplen patient which encapsul microb are associ with infect in asplen patient streptococcus pneumonia haemophilus influenza type b neisseria meningitidi " shin " - s treptococcus pneumonia - h aemophilus i nfluenza - n eisseria meningitidi
which class of antimycobacteri is use as chemoprophylaxi in contact of children with haemophilus influenza type b which class of antimycobacteri is use as chemoprophylaxi in contact of children with haemophilus influenza type b rifamycin (rifampin; rifabutin
____, ____ and ___ are the 3 most common caus of superimpos bacteria infect on top of viral rhinosinusitis. (2) ____, ____ and ___ are the 3 most common caus of superimpos bacteria infect on top of viral rhinosinusitis. (2) s treptococcus pneumonia , haemophilus influenza and moraxella catarrhali
what is the function of the fimbria and pertactin virul factor from bordetella pertussi what is the function of the fimbria and pertactin virul factor from bordetella pertussi adhes
what is the moa of the adenyl cyclas toxin from bordetella pertussi what is the moa of the adenyl cyclas toxin from bordetella pertussi cytoplasm adenylyl cyclase; increas [camp]
what is the moa of the tracheal cytotoxin from bordetella pertussi what is the moa of the tracheal cytotoxin from bordetella pertussi destruct of ciliat respiratori epithelium like the caus of the whoop cough
what is the moa of the filament hemagglutinin (fha) toxin from bordetella pertussi what is the moa of the filament hemagglutinin (fha) toxin from bordetella pertussi attach of bordetella pertussi to respiratori epithelium
which vaccin is use to vaccin against bordetella pertussi which vaccin is use to vaccin against bordetella pertussi dtap vaccin
what is the gram stain of bordetella what is the gram stain of bordetella negat
which special cultur media/agar is use to isol bordetella pertussi which special cultur media/agar is use to isol bordetella pertussi bordet-gengou (potato) agar bordet ella.
___ is an exotoxin from bordetella pertussi that over adenyl cyclas by disabl the g i subunit, therebi impair phagocytosis. ___ is an exotoxin from bordetella pertussi that over adenyl cyclas by disabl the g i subunit, therebi impair phagocytosis. pertussi toxin permit the surviv of the microbe.
what is the moa of pertussi toxin from bordetella pertussi what is the moa of pertussi toxin from bordetella pertussi over of adenyl cyclas by disabl the g i subunit, therebi impair phagocytosi occur via adp ribosyl
____ is an exotoxin from bordetella pertussi that caus whoop cough . ____ is an exotoxin from bordetella pertussi that caus whoop cough . pertussi toxin
__ is a respiratori disord caus by pertussi toxin from bordetella pertussi and involv a cough on expir and a "whoop" on inspiration. __ is a respiratori disord caus by pertussi toxin from bordetella pertussi and involv a cough on expir and a "whoop" on inspiration. whoop cough typic affect children. toxin may not actual be a caus of the cough. can caus a "100-day cough" in adults.
what is the gram stain of vibrio [...] what is the gram stain of vibrio negat
[...] is an exotoxin from vibrio cholera that caus volumin "rice-water" diarrhea due to over of adenyl cyclas through perman  of the g s subunit. cholera toxin is an exotoxin from vibrio cholera that caus volumin "rice-water" diarrhea due to over of adenyl cyclas through perman  of the g s subunit.
[...] is a comma-shap gram-neg bacillus that produc a profus rice-wat diarrhea via an enterotoxin that perman  the g s subunit, therebi increas camp. vibrio cholera is a comma-shap gram-neg bacillus that produc a profus rice-wat diarrhea via an enterotoxin that perman  the g s subunit, therebi increas camp. endem in develop nations. prompt oral rehydr is necessary.
what is the moa of cholera toxin from vibrio cholera [...] what is the moa of cholera toxin from vibrio cholera perman  of the g s subunit lead to overact of adenyl cyclas and increas camp
what is the oxidas express of vibrio cholera [...] what is the oxidas express of vibrio cholera posit
what type of media is requir to cultur vibrio cholera [...] what type of media is requir to cultur vibrio cholera an alkalin media
what food sourc is associ with vibrio parahaemolyticus food poison [...] what food sourc is associ with vibrio parahaemolyticus food poison contamin seafood
what food sourc is associ with vibrio vulnificus food poison [...] what food sourc is associ with vibrio vulnificus food poison contamin seafood vibrio vulnificus also caus wound infect from contact with contamin water or shellfish.
what type of diarrhea is caus by vibrio cholera [...] what type of diarrhea is caus by vibrio cholera wateri comma-shap organism. caus rice water diarrhea. often found in infect seafood.
__ is a gram-neg oblig aerob that often caus nocosomi pneumonia. __ is a gram-neg oblig aerob that often caus nocosomi pneumonia. pseudomona aeruginosa
__ is a gram-neg nocosomi bacteri infect that has respiratori therapi equip as a risk factor. __ is a gram-neg nocosomi bacteri infect that has respiratori therapi equip as a risk factor. pseudomona aeruginosa think of pseudomona " air "-uginosa when air or burn are involved.
tetracyclin are not effect against __ and __ tetracyclin are not effect against __ and __ proteus, pseudomona no pp when you play tetris.
pseudomona aeruginosa - treatment pseudomona aeruginosa - treatment antipseudomon penicillin + aminoglycosid
what is the most common caus of bronchopneumonia in cystic fibrosi patient what is the most common caus of bronchopneumonia in cystic fibrosi patient pseudomona aeruginosa
what type of organ have a higher rate of recurr infect and granuloma at in chronic granulomat diseas (cgd) what type of organ have a higher rate of recurr infect and granuloma at in chronic granulomat diseas (cgd) catalase-posit organ the major catalase-posit bugs: staph n' enterobacteriacea are list catalas positive. [staphylococcus, neisseria, enterobacteria, aspergillus, listeria, candida, pseudomona (and tb!)]
tigecyclin is an antibiot that is not effect against __ and __ tigecyclin is an antibiot that is not effect against __ and __ proteus, pseudomona do not pp on the tiger.
__ is an exotoxin from pseudomona aeruginosa that in elong factor 2 (ef2) through adp ribosylation, therebi inhibit protein synthesi and caus cell death. __ is an exotoxin from pseudomona aeruginosa that in elong factor 2 (ef2) through adp ribosylation, therebi inhibit protein synthesi and caus cell death. exotoxin a
what is the treatment for a uti caus by pseudomona aeruginosa what is the treatment for a uti caus by pseudomona aeruginosa ciprofloxacin
which bacteria is primarili associ with osteomyel in diabet and iv drug user (1) which bacteria is primarili associ with osteomyel in diabet and iv drug user (1) pseudomona aeruginosa
which bug is associ with caus pneumonia in cystic fibrosi patient and caus burn infect which bug is associ with caus pneumonia in cystic fibrosi patient and caus burn infect pseudomona aeruginosa
what kind of pneumonia doe pseudomona aeruginosa caus what kind of pneumonia doe pseudomona aeruginosa caus bronchopneumonia
which gram-neg bacteria is associ with ecthyma gangrenosum which gram-neg bacteria is associ with ecthyma gangrenosum pseudomona aeruginosa
__ and _ are the 2 most common bacteri caus of orchiti in older adult . __ and _ are the 2 most common bacteri caus of orchiti in older adult . escherichia coli and pseudomona sp these uti bug common spread to the reproduct tract in older men.
what bacteri speci is common the caus of osteomyel in diabet or iv drug user what bacteri speci is common the caus of osteomyel in diabet or iv drug user pseudomona spp.
__ is a gram-neg oblig aerob that is often associ with pneumonia in cystic fibrosi patients. __ is a gram-neg oblig aerob that is often associ with pneumonia in cystic fibrosi patients.
what is the gram stain of pseudomona what is the gram stain of pseudomona negat
what type of odour is associ with pseudomona aeruginosa what type of odour is associ with pseudomona aeruginosa grape-lik odour
which respiratori pathogen is common associ with cystic fibrosi which respiratori pathogen is common associ with cystic fibrosi pseudomona aeruginosa
which pigment made by pseudomona aeruginosa give it it blue-green pigment which pigment made by pseudomona aeruginosa give it it blue-green pigment pyocyanin
which gram-neg bacteria is associ with malign otiti externa in diabet which gram-neg bacteria is associ with malign otiti externa in diabet pseudomona aeruginosa
what is the treatment for pseudomona aeruginosa what is the treatment for pseudomona aeruginosa beta-lactam (± aminoglycosid
______ is a gram-neg bacteria that caus uti and is associ with a blue-green pigment and fruiti odor. ______ is a gram-neg bacteria that caus uti and is associ with a blue-green pigment and fruiti odor. pseudomona aeruginosa usual nocosomi and drug resistant.
which gram-neg bacteria is associ with wound and burn infect which gram-neg bacteria is associ with wound and burn infect
which gram-neg bacteria is associ with diabet osteomyel which gram-neg bacteria is associ with diabet osteomyel pseudomona aeruginosa
which gram-neg bacteria is associ with endocard in iv drug abus which gram-neg bacteria is associ with endocard in iv drug abus p seudomona sp.
___ is a gram-neg bacteria that common caus recurr pulmonari infect in patient with cystic fibrosis. ___ is a gram-neg bacteria that common caus recurr pulmonari infect in patient with cystic fibrosis. pseudomona aeruginosa
___ is a gram-neg oblig aerob that is often seen in burn wounds. ___ is a gram-neg oblig aerob that is often seen in burn wounds.
___ is a gram-neg oblig aerob that is often seen as a complic in diabetes. ___ is a gram-neg oblig aerob that is often seen as a complic in diabetes.
what is the catalas express of pseudomona what is the catalas express of pseudomona posit
what colour pigment is associ with pseudomona aeruginosa what colour pigment is associ with pseudomona aeruginosa blue-green
which gram-neg bacteria is associ with hot tub follicul which gram-neg bacteria is associ with hot tub follicul
(3) are bacteria associ with pneumonia in cystic fibrosi patients. (3) are bacteria associ with pneumonia in cystic fibrosi patients. pseudomona sp, s taphylococcus aureus, s treptococcus pneumonia
what is the oxygen depend of pseudomona aeruginosa what is the oxygen depend of pseudomona aeruginosa oblig aerob
what is the moa of exotoxin a from pseudomona aeruginosa what is the moa of exotoxin a from pseudomona aeruginosa in of elong factor 2 (ef2) via adp ribosylation, therebi inhibit protein synthesi and caus cell death
what is the oxidas express of pseudomona aeruginosa what is the oxidas express of pseudomona aeruginosa posit
___ and ___ are antipseudomon penicillin use to treat pseudomona spp. infect and gram-neg rods. ___ and ___ are antipseudomon penicillin use to treat pseudomona spp. infect and gram-neg rods. ticarcillin, piperacillin extend spectrum. beta-lactamas sensitive. use with beta-lactamas inhibitors.
which 3rd generat cephalosporin is use to treat pseudomona spp. infect which 3rd generat cephalosporin is use to treat pseudomona spp. infect ceftazidim
which exotoxin from pseudomona aeruginosa function to in ef-2 via adp ribosyl which exotoxin from pseudomona aeruginosa function to in ef-2 via adp ribosyl exotoxin a
which gram-neg bacteria is associ with pneumonia in cystic fibrosi patient which gram-neg bacteria is associ with pneumonia in cystic fibrosi patient p seudomona aeruginosa chronic pneumonia in cystic fibrosi patient is associ with biofilms, an area in which pseudomona is a star.
what is the clinic use of fluoroquinolon antibiot what is the clinic use of fluoroquinolon antibiot gram-neg rod of urinari and gi tract (includ pseudomona ); neisseria }
osteomyel iti in sickl cell diseas osteomyel iti in sickl cell diseas salmonella
what is the etiolog for typhoid fever what is the etiolog for typhoid fever salmonella typhi
which genus of bacteria common caus osteomyel in sickl cell diseas patient which genus of bacteria common caus osteomyel in sickl cell diseas patient salmonella
what type of motil doe salmonella have what type of motil doe salmonella have flagella "salmon can swim" (i.e. salmonella has a flagella) shigella doe not have a flagella.
___ is a gram-neg bacteria that yiel antigen variat due to it have 2 flagellar variants. ___ is a gram-neg bacteria that yiel antigen variat due to it have 2 flagellar variants. salmonella
what type of immun respons is seen onc salmonella invad the intestin mucosa what type of immun respons is seen onc salmonella invad the intestin mucosa monocyt respons
what food sourc is associ with salmonella food poison what food sourc is associ with salmonella food poison poultry, meat, egg
what type of diarrhea is caus by salmonella what type of diarrhea is caus by salmonella bloodi flagellar motility; reservoir is in animals, especi poultri and eggs.
how doe salmonella dissemin in the bodi how doe salmonella dissemin in the bodi hematogen
what is the gram stain of salmonella what is the gram stain of salmonella negat
__ is a chemic compound with a characterist smell of rotten eggs. it is made by salmonella , but not shigella . __ is a chemic compound with a characterist smell of rotten eggs. it is made by salmonella , but not shigella . hydrogen sulfid
how do antibiot influenc the durat of fecal excret of salmonella how do antibiot influenc the durat of fecal excret of salmonella prolong
__ is a fever caus by salmonella typhi that present with rose spot on the abdomen , fever, headach and diarrhea. __ is a fever caus by salmonella typhi that present with rose spot on the abdomen , fever, headach and diarrhea. typhoid fever
what is the reservoir for salmonella typhi what is the reservoir for salmonella typhi human onli it can remain in the gallbladd and caus a carrier state.
__ is a thrombot microangiopathi that is associ with the shigella-lik toxin made by o157:h7 e. coli as they injur endotheli cells. __ is a thrombot microangiopathi that is associ with the shigella-lik toxin made by o157:h7 e. coli as they injur endotheli cells. hemolyt urem syndrom
how do antibiot influenc the durat of fecal excret of shigella how do antibiot influenc the durat of fecal excret of shigella shorten
which cell are target and injur by the shigella-lik toxin from o157:h7 e. coli which cell are target and injur by the shigella-lik toxin from o157:h7 e. coli endotheli cell
__ is a strain of escherichia coli that clinic present similar to shigella infection. __ is a strain of escherichia coli that clinic present similar to shigella infection. ehec
which cell are target and injur by the shigella-lik toxin from o157:h7 e. coli [...] which cell are target and injur by the shigella-lik toxin from o157:h7 e. coli endotheli cell
what is the gram stain of shigella [...] what is the gram stain of shigella negat
[...] is an exotoxin from shigella spp. that in the 60s ribosom subunit by remov adenin from rrna. shiga toxin (st) is an exotoxin from shigella spp. that in the 60s ribosom subunit by remov adenin from rrna. therebi caus gi mucos damage, dysenteri and possibl hemolyt uremia syndrom (hus).
[...] is an exotoxin from shigella spp. that can enhanc cytokin release, therebi caus hemolyt uremia syndrom (hus). shiga toxin (st) is an exotoxin from shigella spp. that can enhanc cytokin release, therebi caus hemolyt uremia syndrom (hus).
[...] is an exotoxin from enterohemorrhag escherichia coli (ehec) that can caus hemolyt uremia syndrom (hus) by enhanc cytokin release. shiga-lik toxin (slt) is an exotoxin from enterohemorrhag escherichia coli (ehec) that can caus hemolyt uremia syndrom (hus) by enhanc cytokin release. especi the o157:h7 strain. ehec doe not invad host cell like shigella.
[...] is a strain of escherichia coli that clinic present similar to shigella infection. enteroinvas escherichia coli (eiec) is a strain of escherichia coli that clinic present similar to shigella infection.
how doe shigella dissemin in the bodi [...] how doe shigella dissemin in the bodi cell to cell it doe not spread hematogen (salmonella does).
what type of diarrhea is caus by shigella [...] what type of diarrhea is caus by shigella bloodi produc a shiga toxin. human reservoir only.
what is the moa of shiga toxin (st) from shigella spp. what is the moa of shiga toxin (st) from shigella spp. in of the 60s ribosom by remov adenin from rrna
__ is an exotoxin from shigella spp. that caus gi mucos damag and subsequ dysenteri due to in of the 60s ribosome. __ is an exotoxin from shigella spp. that caus gi mucos damag and subsequ dysenteri due to in of the 60s ribosome. shiga toxin
which type of seroneg spondyloarthropathi common manifest after a gi infect ( shigella, salmonella, yersinia, campylobacter) which type of seroneg spondyloarthropathi common manifest after a gi infect ( shigella, salmonella, yersinia, campylobacter) re arthriti (reiter syndrome)
what is the gram stain of campylobact what is the gram stain of campylobact negat
how is campylobact jejuni transmit how is campylobact jejuni transmit fecal-or
what food are associ with campylobact jejuni what food are associ with campylobact jejuni poultry; meat; unpasteur milk
__ is a comma or s-shape gram-neg bacillus that is a major caus of bloodi diarrhea, especi in children. __ is a comma or s-shape gram-neg bacillus that is a major caus of bloodi diarrhea, especi in children. campylobact jejuni
what is the oxidas express of campylobact jejuni what is the oxidas express of campylobact jejuni posit
___ is a comma or s-shape gram-neg bacillus that grow at 42 c. ___ is a comma or s-shape gram-neg bacillus that grow at 42 c. campylobact jejuni camp ylobact like the hot camp fire.
which gram-neg bacillus is a common anteced to guillain-barr syndrom and re arthriti which gram-neg bacillus is a common anteced to guillain-barr syndrom and re arthriti campylobact jejuni
what type of diarrhea is associ with campylobact jejuni what type of diarrhea is associ with campylobact jejuni bloodi diarrhea
which pet anim are associ with campylobact infect which pet anim are associ with campylobact infect puppi
asid from puppies, how els is campylobact spp. transmit asid from puppies, how els is campylobact spp. transmit livestock (fecal-or via ingest of undercook meat
what type of diarrhea is caus by campylobact spp . what type of diarrhea is caus by campylobact spp . bloodi comma or s-shape organ that can grow at 42 c
what is the oxidas express of helicobact pylori what is the oxidas express of helicobact pylori posit
what is the catalas express of helicobact pylori what is the catalas express of helicobact pylori posit
what is the gram stain of helicobact what is the gram stain of helicobact negat
how doe the ph of the stomach chang with helicobact pylori infect how doe the ph of the stomach chang with helicobact pylori infect more alkalin (increas ph)
what is the gastric acid level in helicobact pylori chronic gastriti what is the gastric acid level in helicobact pylori chronic gastriti variable; usual high the antrum is affect in type b chronic gastritis. henc there is less somatostatin release.
what is the gastrin level in helicobact pylori chronic gastriti what is the gastrin level in helicobact pylori chronic gastriti low to normal
inflammatori polyp are a morpholog featur of __ chronic gastritis. inflammatori polyp are a morpholog featur of __ chronic gastritis. helicobact pylori
___ is a low grade gastric lymphoma associ with helicobact pylori infection. ___ is a low grade gastric lymphoma associ with helicobact pylori infection. gastric margin zone (malt) lymphoma}
which area of the stomach is most common affect by helicobact pylori chronic gastriti which area of the stomach is most common affect by helicobact pylori chronic gastriti antrum
which lymphoma is associ with helicobact pylori which lymphoma is associ with helicobact pylori malt lymphoma
what is the most common caus of duoden ulcer what is the most common caus of duoden ulcer helicobact pylori also seen in zollinger-ellison syndrome.
what is the most common caus of gastric ulcer what is the most common caus of gastric ulcer helicobact pylori decreas mucos protection. other caus includ nsaids.
which stain is use to visual helicobact pylori which stain is use to visual helicobact pylori silver stain
what type of gastrointestin ulcer is most common associ with helicobact pylori what type of gastrointestin ulcer is most common associ with helicobact pylori duoden
which bacteria is associ with intestin gastric adenocarcinoma which bacteria is associ with intestin gastric adenocarcinoma helicobact pylori
what is the ureas express of helicobact pylori what is the ureas express of helicobact pylori posit a ureas breath test or fecal antigen test can be use for diagnosis.
what is the most common caus and  of gastriti what is the most common caus and  of gastriti helicobact pylori
which cancer is associ with helicobact pylori which cancer is associ with helicobact pylori gastric adenocarinoma; malt lymphoma
what is the gram stain of brucella what is the gram stain of brucella negat
what is the etiolog of brucellosi what is the etiolog of brucellosi brucella spp.
what is the etiolog of undul fever what is the etiolog of undul fever brucella spp.
what food is associ with brucella spp. infect what food is associ with brucella spp. infect unpasteur dairi
__ is a possibl complic of clindamycin use due to  clostridium difficil overgrowth. __ is a possibl complic of clindamycin use due to  clostridium difficil overgrowth. pseudomembran coliti also caus fever and diarrhea.
drug reaction: pseudomembran coliti causal agent clindamycin ampicillin
what is the moa of clindamycin [...] what is the moa of clindamycin inhibit of the 50s subunit
what type of bacteria are common affect by clindamycin [...] what type of bacteria are common affect by clindamycin anaerob
what is a serious advers effect of clindamycin [...] what is a serious advers effect of clindamycin pseudomembran coliti
what is the clinical, dermatolog use of clindamycin [...] what is the clinical, dermatolog use of clindamycin acn vulgari
what is the moa of clindamycin [...] what is the moa of clindamycin inhibit of the 50s ribosom subunit
which speci of clostridium often caus infect follow antibiot use, especi clindamycin or ampicillin [...] which speci of clostridium often caus infect follow antibiot use, especi clindamycin or ampicillin clostridium difficil
which bacteri subunit is target by clindamycin [...] which bacteri subunit is target by clindamycin 50s
which protein synthesi inhibit antibiot is known to treat anaerob abov the diaphragm [...] which protein synthesi inhibit antibiot is known to treat anaerob abov the diaphragm clindamycin
what is the gi toxic of clindamycin [...] what is the gi toxic of clindamycin pseudomembran coliti
what is the moa of clindamycin [...] what is the moa of clindamycin  transloc at the 50s ribosom subunit
what is the clinic use of fluoroquinolon antibiot [...] what is the clinic use of fluoroquinolon antibiot gram-neg rod of urinari and gi tract (includ pseudomona ); neisseria
[...] are a type of antibiot that are no longer recommend for the treatment of gonorrhea due to increas resist rates. fluoroquinolon are a type of antibiot that are no longer recommend for the treatment of gonorrhea due to increas resist rates.
which enzym involv with dna replic is inhibit by fluoroquinolon antibiot [...] which enzym involv with dna replic is inhibit by fluoroquinolon antibiot dna gyras (prokaryot dna topoisomeras ii)
[...] are a class of antibiot that can possibl caus tendonitis, tendon ruptue, leg cramp and myalgia . fluoroquinolon are a class of antibiot that can possibl caus tendonitis, tendon ruptue, leg cramp and myalgia .
[...] is a possibl cardiac complic of fluoroquinolon administr that often involv a prolong qt interv . arrhythmia is a possibl cardiac complic of fluoroquinolon administr that often involv a prolong qt interv .
[...] is a possibl connect tissu complic of fluoroquinolon administr in patient 60 y/o and in patient take prednisone. tendon ruptur is a possibl connect tissu complic of fluoroquinolon administr in patient 60 y/o and in patient take prednisone.
what is the mechan of resist toward fluoroquinolon antibiot [...] what is the mechan of resist toward fluoroquinolon antibiot mutat in dna gyrase; plasmid-medi resistance; develop of efflux pump
ciprofloxacin, levofloxacin and moxifloxacin are all [...] antibiotics. ciprofloxacin, levofloxacin and moxifloxacin are all fluoroquinolon antibiotics.
what is the most potent fluoroquinolon against pseudomona aeruginosa [...] what is the most potent fluoroquinolon against pseudomona aeruginosa ciprofloxacin; except in cystic fibrosi patient
[...] is the prefer fluoroquinolon to treat communiti acquir pneumonia due to it overal improv  against gram-posit and atyp caus of pneumonia. levofloxacin is the prefer fluoroquinolon to treat communiti acquir pneumonia due to it overal improv  against gram-posit and atyp caus of pneumonia.
[...] is the fluoroquinolon with weak  against pseudomona aeruginosa . moxifloxacin is the fluoroquinolon with weak  against pseudomona aeruginosa .
which class of antibiot is associ with tendonitis, tendon ruptur and/or cartilag damag [...] which class of antibiot is associ with tendonitis, tendon ruptur and/or cartilag damag fluoroquinolon
drug reaction: tendonitis, tendon rupture, and cartilag damag (kids) causal agent fluoroquinolon
[...] , especi at the achill tendon, is a common advers effect of fluoroquinolones. tendon , especi at the achill tendon, is a common advers effect of fluoroquinolones.
what is the roa of aminoglycosid [...] what is the roa of aminoglycosid parenter
[...] is an aminoglycosid that is high nephrotox and is henc onli use topic or oral for gi infect due to poor f oral neomycin is an aminoglycosid that is high nephrotox and is henc onli use topic or oral for gi infect due to poor f oral
what is the classic treatment of: pseudomona aeruginosa antipseudomon penicillin + aminoglycosid
what antibiot combin is use to treat enterococcus endocard [...] what antibiot combin is use to treat enterococcus endocard beta-lactam + aminoglycosid
what kind of antibiot is gentamycin [...] what kind of antibiot is gentamycin aminoglycosid
what is the moa of aminoglycosid [...] what is the moa of aminoglycosid inhibit of the 30s ribosom subunit
[...] are a type antibiot that inhibit the 30s ribosom subunit and are common use with penicillins/beta-lactams. aminoglycosid are a type antibiot that inhibit the 30s ribosom subunit and are common use with penicillins/beta-lactams.
[...] is an aminoglycosid that is superior against pseudomona aeruginosa . tobramycin is an aminoglycosid that is superior against pseudomona aeruginosa .
what is the most common use aminoglycosid [...] what is the most common use aminoglycosid gentamycin
[...] is an aminoglycosid that is use against mycobacterium tuberculosis, yersinia pesti and francisella tularemia . streptomycin is an aminoglycosid that is use against mycobacterium tuberculosis, yersinia pesti and francisella tularemia .
[...] is an aminoglycosid use to treat brucellosi with doxycycline. gentamycin is an aminoglycosid use to treat brucellosi with doxycycline.
[...] and gentamycin are aminoglycosid use to treat tularemia ( francisella tularemia ). streptomycin and gentamycin are aminoglycosid use to treat tularemia ( francisella tularemia ).
streptomycin and [...] are aminoglycosid use to treat tularemia ( francisella tularemia ). streptomycin and gentamycin are aminoglycosid use to treat tularemia ( francisella tularemia ).
what is the pregnanc categori of aminoglycosid [...] what is the pregnanc categori of aminoglycosid x; they are teratogen
[...] are antibiot that target the 30s ribosom subunit and caus ad of the initi complex and ad of translocation. aminoglycosid are antibiot that target the 30s ribosom subunit and caus ad of the initi complex and ad of translocation.
[...] is an aminoglycosid that is use as a singl daili dose due to it concentraion depend kill and long post-antibiot effect. gentamycin is an aminoglycosid that is use as a singl daili dose due to it concentraion depend kill and long post-antibiot effect.
[...] are a type of antibiot that are common use in s ever gram-neg bacilli infect with dissemin septicemia. aminoglycosid are a type of antibiot that are common use in s ever gram-neg bacilli infect with dissemin septicemia.
what is the clinic use for aminoglycosid [...] what is the clinic use for aminoglycosid sever gram-neg rod infect synergist with beta-lactams. remember, they are ineffect against anerobes.
[...] are a class of antibiot that are ineffect against anaerob bacteria as they requir o 2 to enter bacteri cells. aminoglycosid are a class of antibiot that are ineffect against anaerob bacteria as they requir o 2 to enter bacteri cells. amin o 2 glycosid requir o 2 to enter bacteria.
how do cephalosporin antibiot influenc the nephrotox of aminoglycosid [...] how do cephalosporin antibiot influenc the nephrotox of aminoglycosid increas
which bacteri ribosom subunit is target by aminoglycosid [...] which bacteri ribosom subunit is target by aminoglycosid 30 s
what class of antibiot is amikacin [...] what class of antibiot is amikacin aminoglycosid
what class of antibiot is streptomycin [...] what class of antibiot is streptomycin aminoglycosid
what is the moa of aminoglycosid antibiot [...] what is the moa of aminoglycosid antibiot inhibit of the at of the initi complex at the 30s subunit, therebi caus misread of mrna;  of transloc a (aminoglycosides) "initiates" the a lphabet
[...] are a type of protein synthesi inhibit antibiot that requir o 2 for uptak , henc they are ineffect against anerobes. aminoglycosid are a type of protein synthesi inhibit antibiot that requir o 2 for uptak , henc they are ineffect against anerobes.
which aminoglycosid antibiot is use befor bowel surgeri [...] which aminoglycosid antibiot is use befor bowel surgeri neomycin
[...] is a renal complic of aminoglycosid use, especi when they are use alongsid cephalosporins. nephrotox is a renal complic of aminoglycosid use, especi when they are use alongsid cephalosporins.
[...] is a cns complic of aminoglycosid use, especi when they are use with loop diuretics. ototox is a cns complic of aminoglycosid use, especi when they are use with loop diuretics.
what is the mechan of resist against aminoglycosid [...] what is the mechan of resist against aminoglycosid bacteri transferas enzymes; they in the drug by acetylation, phosphoryl or adenyl
[...] are a class of antibiot that should not be use in pregnanc as they caus ototox . aminoglycosid are a class of antibiot that should not be use in pregnanc as they caus ototox .
what kind of antibiot is streptomycin [...] what kind of antibiot is streptomycin aminoglycosid
[...] is an aminoglycosid with more sever and common nephrotoxicity. gentamycin is an aminoglycosid with more sever and common nephrotoxicity.
[...] is an aminoglycosid with more sever and common ototoxicity. streptomycin is an aminoglycosid with more sever and common ototoxicity.
which group of bacteria are aminoglycosid main  against [...] which group of bacteria are aminoglycosid main  against aerob g- bacteria
[...] is an aminoglycosid that is resist to aminoglycoside-in enzymes. amikacin is an aminoglycosid that is resist to aminoglycoside-in enzymes.
what advers effect is link to the aminoglycosid neomycin [...] what advers effect is link to the aminoglycosid neomycin nephrotox
[...] is an aminoglycosid that can be given in nebulis  to treat pseudomona infect in cystic fibrosi patients. tobramycin is an aminoglycosid that can be given in nebulis  to treat pseudomona infect in cystic fibrosi patients.
what class of antibiot is gentamicin [...] what class of antibiot is gentamicin aminoglycosid
what class of antibiot is neomycin [...] what class of antibiot is neomycin aminoglycosid
[...] is an antibiot that inhibit cytoplasm bacteri dihydrofol reductase. trimethoprim is an antibiot that inhibit cytoplasm bacteri dihydrofol reductase.
[...] is a combin antibiot that involv sulfamethoxazol and trimethoprim (tmp-smz). cotrimoxazol is a combin antibiot that involv sulfamethoxazol and trimethoprim (tmp-smz).
[...] is a diaminopyrimidin antibiot that can caus asept meningitis. trimethoprim is a diaminopyrimidin antibiot that can caus asept meningitis.
[...] is an antibiot that inhibit dihydrofol reductas in bacteria, therebi inhibit de novo pyrimidin synthesis. trimethoprim (tmp) is an antibiot that inhibit dihydrofol reductas in bacteria, therebi inhibit de novo pyrimidin synthesis.
which enzym involv with de novo pyrimidin synthesi is inhibit by the antibiot trimethoprim (tmp) [...] which enzym involv with de novo pyrimidin synthesi is inhibit by the antibiot trimethoprim (tmp) dihydrofol reductas (in bacteria)
what is the moa of trimethoprim [...] what is the moa of trimethoprim inhibit of dihydrofol reductase, therebi inhibit folat synthesi
[...] is an antibiot that is often use in conjunct with sulfonamides, therebi caus sequenti  of folat synthesis. trimethoprim (tmp) is an antibiot that is often use in conjunct with sulfonamides, therebi caus sequenti  of folat synthesis. tmp-smx: trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazol is typic use for: - uti - shigella - salmonella - pneumocyti jirovecii pneumonia treatment and prophylaxi - toxoplasmosi prophylaxi
[...] is a folat synthesi inhibit antibiot that is use as a treatment and prophylaxi for pneumocyti jirovecii pneumonia. trimethoprim is a folat synthesi inhibit antibiot that is use as a treatment and prophylaxi for pneumocyti jirovecii pneumonia.
[...] is a folat synthesi inhibit antibiot that is use as prophylaxi for toxoplasmosis. trimethoprim is a folat synthesi inhibit antibiot that is use as prophylaxi for toxoplasmosis.
what two antibiot prevent at of bacteri tetrahydrofol acid sulfonamid prevent pteridin and paba to dihydroptero acid trimethoprim prevent the usag of the reduct agent nadph to  tetrahydrofol acid from dihydrofol acid
drug reaction: photosensit causal agent sulfonamid amiodaron tetracyclin
what is the function of sulfonamid inhibit nucleic acid synthesis; inhibit bacteri dihydroptero synthas and folat synthesi
drug reaction: hypothyroid causal agent lithium, amiodarone, sulfonamid
[...] are antibiot that inhibit cytoplasm bacteri didhydroptero synthetase. sulfonamid are antibiot that inhibit cytoplasm bacteri didhydroptero synthetase.
what are the 3 main caus of acut interstiti nephriti [...] what are the 3 main caus of acut interstiti nephriti penicillin, nsaid and diuret sulfonamid and rifampin can also caus ain.
sulfonamid antibiot are contraind in [...] due to the hemolyt anaemia that occurs. sulfonamid antibiot are contraind in g6pd defici due to the hemolyt anaemia that occurs.
[...] are a group of antibiot that are avoid in neonat and infant due to their abil to take up bilirubin  site on albumin, therebi exacerb or facilit ani jaundice. is also includ sulfonamid are a group of antibiot that are avoid in neonat and infant due to their abil to take up bilirubin  site on albumin, therebi exacerb or facilit ani jaundice. is also includ
[...] is a renal complic of sulfonamid antibiot use. tubulointerstiti nephriti is a renal complic of sulfonamid antibiot use.
what is the cutan toxic of sulfonamid [...] what is the cutan toxic of sulfonamid photosensit
how do sulfonamid influenc the  of cytochrom p450 [...] how do sulfonamid influenc the  of cytochrom p450 decreas
what is the moa of sulfonamid antibiot [...] what is the moa of sulfonamid antibiot inhibit of dihydroptero synthase, therebi decreas folat synthesi
what is the clinic use for sulfonamid antibiot (sulfamethoxazol (smx); sulfisoxazole; sulfadiazine) [...] what is the clinic use for sulfonamid antibiot (sulfamethoxazol (smx); sulfisoxazole; sulfadiazine) gram-negative; gram-positive; nocardia ; chlamydia
[...] is a hematolog complic of sulfonamid use in patient that have g6pd deficiency. hemolyt anaemia is a hematolog complic of sulfonamid use in patient that have g6pd deficiency.
which class of folat synthesi inhibit antibiot displac other drug from albumin [...] which class of folat synthesi inhibit antibiot displac other drug from albumin sulfonamid
what is the mechan of sulfonamid resist [...] what is the mechan of sulfonamid resist alter dihydroptero synthase; decreas uptake; increas paba synthesi
what type of anaemia is a complic of sulfonamid use [...] what type of anaemia is a complic of sulfonamid use megaloblast anaemia
[...] are a class of antibiot that are avoid in pregnanc as they caus kernicterus. sulfonamid are a class of antibiot that are avoid in pregnanc as they caus kernicterus.
[...] can be coadminist with isoniazid to prevent neuropathies. vitamin b6 can be coadminist with isoniazid to prevent neuropathies.
what is the gi toxic of isoniazid (inh) [...] what is the gi toxic of isoniazid (inh) hepat
drug reaction: seizur causal agent isoniazid, bupropion, lmipenem/cilastatin, tramadol, enflurane, metoclopramid
what is the moa of isoniazid [...] what is the moa of isoniazid in enzym associ with mycol acid synthesis, therebi inhibit cell wall synthesi enoyl-acp reductas and beta-ketoacyl-acp synthas are inated.
[...] is an autoimmune-lik complic of isoniazid (inh) use. sle-lik syndrom is an autoimmune-lik complic of isoniazid (inh) use.
what is the first line therapi for  mtb infect dure month 2-6 of therapi [...] what is the first line therapi for  mtb infect dure month 2-6 of therapi rifampin and isoniazid
what is the first line therapi for  mtb in the first 2 month of therapi [...] what is the first line therapi for  mtb in the first 2 month of therapi rifampin, isoniazid, pyrazinamide, ethambutol ripe
isoniazid is convert into it   by [...] . isoniazid is convert into it   by catalase-peroxidas .
how doe isoniazid influenc cytochrom p450  [...] how doe isoniazid influenc cytochrom p450  decreas
[...] are a neurolog complic of isoniazid use due to the vit b6 defici that the drug causes. seizur are a neurolog complic of isoniazid use due to the vit b6 defici that the drug causes.
[...] is an anti-tb antibiot that can caus sideroblast anaemia. isoniazid is an anti-tb antibiot that can caus sideroblast anaemia. inh can caus vitamin b6 deficiency.
[...] is an anti-tb drug that can induc vitamin b6 (pyridoxine) deficiency. isoniazid is an anti-tb drug that can induc vitamin b6 (pyridoxine) deficiency. what other vitamin defici can isoniazid caus vitamin b3 (niacin)
what is the treatment for mycobacterium tuberculosi [...] what is the treatment for mycobacterium tuberculosi rifampin; isoniazid; pyrazinamide; ethambutol " ripe " for treatment.
which water solubl vitamin defici is abl to present with neurotox and drug-induc sle caus by isoniazid (inh) [...] which water solubl vitamin defici is abl to present with neurotox and drug-induc sle caus by isoniazid (inh) vitamin b6 (pyridoxine)
what is the hematolog toxic of isoniazid (inh) [...] what is the hematolog toxic of isoniazid (inh) hemolysi in g6pd defici
what is the moa of isoniazid (inh) [...] what is the moa of isoniazid (inh) decreas the synthesi of mycol acid
what is the moa of ethambutol in tb therapi [...] what is the moa of ethambutol in tb therapi inhibit of arabinosyl transferase, therebi inhibit arabinogalactan synthesi arabinogalactan is an import compon of the cell wall
[...] is a first-lin tb therapi involv optic neuriti that involv decreas visual acuiti and red-green colour blindness. ethambutol is a first-lin tb therapi involv optic neuriti that involv decreas visual acuiti and red-green colour blindness.
[...] is an antimycobacteri that is associ with hyperuricemia and hepatotox as side effects. pyrazinamid is an antimycobacteri that is associ with hyperuricemia and hepatotox as side effects.
what is the musculoskelet toxic of pyrazinamid [...] what is the musculoskelet toxic of pyrazinamid hyperuricemia/gout
what is the classic treatment of: haemophilus influenza (b) (prophylaxis) rifampin
[...] is a first-lin drug for tb that is also a strong cyp enzym induc . rifampin is a first-lin drug for tb that is also a strong cyp enzym induc .
which antimycobacteri drug is use as prophylaxi for mycobacterium tuberculosi [...] which antimycobacteri drug is use as prophylaxi for mycobacterium tuberculosi isoniazid
[...] is an antimycobacteri that requir bacteri catalase-peroxidas enzym in order to becom  metabolites. isoniazid (inh) is an antimycobacteri that requir bacteri catalase-peroxidas enzym in order to becom  metabolites.
[...] is an antimycobacteri drug that caus neurotox and hepatotox . isoniazid (inh) is an antimycobacteri drug that caus neurotox and hepatotox . " inh i njure n euron and h epatocytes."
[...] is a mycobacteri speci that caus tuberculosis-lik diseas in hiv patients. mycobacterium avium-intracellular (mac) is a mycobacteri speci that caus tuberculosis-lik diseas in hiv patients.
[...] is a class of antimycobacteri that yield orange-r bodili fluid . rifamycin (rifampin; rifabutin) is a class of antimycobacteri that yield orange-r bodili fluid . a non-hazardoud side effect.
what is the moa of rifamycin antimycobacteri (rifampin; rifabutin) [...] what is the moa of rifamycin antimycobacteri (rifampin; rifabutin) inhibit of dna-depend rna polymeras
how doe rifabutin influenc cytochrom p450  [...] how doe rifabutin influenc cytochrom p450  no effect
[...] is a rifamycin antimycobacteri that is favour for use in patient with hiv due to less cytochrom p450 stimulation. rifabutin is a rifamycin antimycobacteri that is favour for use in patient with hiv due to less cytochrom p450 stimulation.
what rbc disord are associ with heinz bodi [...] what rbc disord are associ with heinz bodi g6pd deficiency; alpha-thalassemia
what are heinz bodi a common sign of [...] what are heinz bodi a common sign of g6pd defici
what is the moa of botulinum toxin what is the moa of botulinum toxin inhibit ach releas from nerv terminals; caus flaccid paralysi
__ is an exotoxin from clostridium botulinum that cleav snare protein requir for neurotransmitt release. __ is an exotoxin from clostridium botulinum that cleav snare protein requir for neurotransmitt release. botulinum toxin
__ is a toxin from clostridium botulinum that prevent the releas of neurotransmitt at all cholinerg terminals. __ is a toxin from clostridium botulinum that prevent the releas of neurotransmitt at all cholinerg terminals. botulinum toxin
what is the moa of botulinum toxin from clostridium botulinum what is the moa of botulinum toxin from clostridium botulinum cleavag of snare protein requir for neurotransmitt releas
__ is a neurolog disord caus by the botulinum toxin from clostridium botulinum that present with flaccid paralysi or as floppi babi syndrom in infants. __ is a neurolog disord caus by the botulinum toxin from clostridium botulinum that present with flaccid paralysi or as floppi babi syndrom in infants. botul
which neurotransmitt releas is prevent by the botulinum toxin from clostridium botulinum which neurotransmitt releas is prevent by the botulinum toxin from clostridium botulinum ach botul = flaccid paralysis. henc there must be a lack of stimulatori neurotransmitt .
___ is a  of botulinum that is seen in babi follow ingest of spore in honey. ___ is a  of botulinum that is seen in babi follow ingest of spore in honey. floppi babi syndrom bot ulinum is from bad bot tles of food and honey. in adults, the pre toxin is ingest to caus botulinum.
what food sourc is associ with clostridium botulinum food poison what food sourc is associ with clostridium botulinum food poison improp can food a sign will be bulg can due to the gas production.
clostridium tetani - treatment clostridium tetani - treatment antitoxin + vaccin booster + diazepam
what is the moa of tetanospasmin toxin from clostridium tetani what is the moa of tetanospasmin toxin from clostridium tetani cleavag of snare protein requir for neurotransmitt releas
__ is a neurolog disord caus by tetanospasmin toxin from clostridium tetani that involv spasticity, risus sardonicus and "lockjaw" . __ is a neurolog disord caus by tetanospasmin toxin from clostridium tetani that involv spasticity, risus sardonicus and "lockjaw" . tetanus
___ is an exotoxin from clostridium tetani that cleav snare protein requir for neurotransmitt release. tetanospasmin
which neurotransmitt releas is prevent by the tetanospasmin toxin from clostridium tetani gaba; glycin tetanus = spastic paralysis. hence, there must be a lack of inhibitori neurotransmitt .
which toxin from clostridium tetani caus tetanus tetanospasmin remember, tetanospasmin cleav snare protein involv in neurotransmission. it prevent the releas of gaba and glycine, 2 inhibitori neurotransmitters, therebi caus spastic paralysi , trismus and risus sardonicus.
____ is a gi advers effect of penicillin usag due to toxin secret from the bacteria ____ ____ is a gi advers effect of penicillin usag due to toxin secret from the bacteria ____ pseudomembran colitis, clostridium difficil }
clostridium difficil treatment clostridium difficil treatment oral metronidazole; if refractory, oral vancomycin
__ is a gram-positive, spore  bacteria that can be treat with vancomycin due to it poor oral bioavail and tendenc to stay in the gi lumen. __ is a gram-positive, spore  bacteria that can be treat with vancomycin due to it poor oral bioavail and tendenc to stay in the gi lumen. clostridium difficil
what is the caus of pseudomembran coliti what is the caus of pseudomembran coliti clostridium difficil
___ is a type of enterocol caus by clostridium difficil and involv pus and inflammatori debri scatter over the mucosa. ___ is a type of enterocol caus by clostridium difficil and involv pus and inflammatori debri scatter over the mucosa. pseudomembran coliti
__ is an enterotoxin from clostridium difficil that  to the brush border of the gut. __ is an enterotoxin from clostridium difficil that  to the brush border of the gut. toxin a
which exotoxin from clostridium difficil function to  to the brush border of the gut which exotoxin from clostridium difficil function to  to the brush border of the gut toxin a
__ is a cytotoxin from clostridium difficil that caus cytoskelet disrupt via actin depolarization, therebi caus pseudomembran coliti and diarrhea . __ is a cytotoxin from clostridium difficil that caus cytoskelet disrupt via actin depolarization, therebi caus pseudomembran coliti and diarrhea . toxin b di fficil caus di arrhea.
which exotoxin from clostridium difficil caus cytoskelet disrupt via actin depolymer which exotoxin from clostridium difficil caus cytoskelet disrupt via actin depolymer toxin b therebi caus pseudomembran coliti and diarrhea .
what type of diarrhea is caus by clostridium difficil what type of diarrhea is caus by clostridium difficil wateri also caus pseudomembran colitis. occassion caus bloodi diarrhea.
which antibiot is known to treat anaerob infect below the diaphragm which antibiot is known to treat anaerob infect below the diaphragm metronidazol "op is a p h agget " : - helicobact p ylori (in tripl therapy) - a naerob (bacteroides, clostridium difficile) - g iardia lamblia - g ardnerella vaginali - e ntamoeba histolytica - t richomona vaginali
what is the clinic use of metronidazol what is the clinic use of metronidazol anaerobes; enter infect "op is a p h agget " : - helicobact p ylori (in tripl therapy) - a naerob (bacteroides, clostridium difficile) - g iardia lamblia - g ardnerella vaginali - e ntamoeba histolytica - t richomona vaginali
__ is an exotoxin from clostridium perfringen that act as a phospholipas (lecithinase) that degrad tissu and cell membranes. __ is an exotoxin from clostridium perfringen that act as a phospholipas (lecithinase) that degrad tissu and cell membranes. alpha toxin
what type of diarrhea is caus by clostridium perfringen what type of diarrhea is caus by clostridium perfringen wateri also caus gas gangrene.
what is the moa of alpha toxin from clostridium perfringen what is the moa of alpha toxin from clostridium perfringen phospholipas (lecithinase) action, therebi lead to degrad of tissu and cell membran
__ is an exotoxin from clostridium perfringen that degrad phospholipids, therebi caus myonecrosi ("gas gangrene") and hemolysis. __ is an exotoxin from clostridium perfringen that degrad phospholipids, therebi caus myonecrosi ("gas gangrene") and hemolysis. alpha toxin the hemolysi is a "doubl zone" of hemolysi on blood agar.
which exotoxin from clostridium perfringen function as a phospholipase, therebi caus myonecrosi (gas gangrene) and hemoylsi which exotoxin from clostridium perfringen function as a phospholipase, therebi caus myonecrosi (gas gangrene) and hemoylsi alpha-toxin phospholipase, lecithinas ity. perf ringen perf orat a gangren leg.
what food sourc is associ with clostridium perfringen food poison what food sourc is associ with clostridium perfringen food poison reheat meat dish
which bacteria is associ with traumat open wound infect which bacteria is associ with traumat open wound infect clostridium perfringen
what is the gram stain of francisella what is the gram stain of francisella negat
what is the etiolog of tularemia what is the etiolog of tularemia francisella tularensi
how is tularemia ( francisella tularensi ) transmit how is tularemia ( francisella tularensi ) transmit rabbit , ticks, deer fli
__ + __ are aminoglycosid use to treat tularemia ( francisella tularemia ). __ + __ are aminoglycosid use to treat tularemia ( francisella tularemia ). streptomycin and gentamycin
dog or cat bite  in infect = dog or cat bite  in infect = pasteurella multocida (cellul iti at inocul site)
what bacteri speci is common the caus of osteomyel in those that have been bitten or scratch by cat or dog what bacteri speci is common the caus of osteomyel in those that have been bitten or scratch by cat or dog pasteurella
what is the gram stain of pasteurella what is the gram stain of pasteurella negat
which bacteria is associ with osteomyel in patient that have receiv cat and dog bite which bacteria is associ with osteomyel in patient that have receiv cat and dog bite pasteurella multocida
which bug is associ with dog or cat bite which bug is associ with dog or cat bite pasteurella multocida
__ is a vascular prolifer that is associ with bartonella infections. __ is a vascular prolifer that is associ with bartonella infections. bacillari angiomatosi
how is bacillari angiomatosi ( bartonella spp. ) transmit how is bacillari angiomatosi ( bartonella spp. ) transmit cat scratch bartonella also caus cat scratch disease.
what are the 2 most common caus of culture-neg bacteri endocard what are the 2 most common caus of culture-neg bacteri endocard coxiella burnetti ; bartonella spp
__ and __are the 2 most common caus of culture-neg bacteri endocarditis. __ and __are the 2 most common caus of culture-neg bacteri endocarditis. coxiella burnetti, bartonella spp
what is the gram stain of bartonella what is the gram stain of bartonella negat
what stain can be use to identifi bartonella spp what stain can be use to identifi bartonella spp wartin-starri (silver) stain
what is the caus of bacillari angiomatosi what is the caus of bacillari angiomatosi bartonella hensela
what is the etiolog of cat scratch diseas what is the etiolog of cat scratch diseas bartonella
what is the etiolog of bacillari angiomatosi what is the etiolog of bacillari angiomatosi bartonella spp.
__ is a dermatolog disord caus by bartonella hensela in hiv patient and present with superfici vascular proliferation. __ is a dermatolog disord caus by bartonella hensela in hiv patient and present with superfici vascular proliferation. bacillari angiomatosi biopsi reveal neutrophil inflammation.
how is q fever ( coxiella burnetti ) transmit how is q fever ( coxiella burnetti ) transmit aerosol of cattle/sheep amniot fluid
what is the etiolog of q fever what is the etiolog of q fever c oxiella burnetti
__ is a type of pneumonia caus by coxiella burnetti character by atyp pneumonia with veri high fever. __ is a type of pneumonia caus by coxiella burnetti character by atyp pneumonia with veri high fever. q fever
what kind of pneumonia doe coxiella burnetti caus what kind of pneumonia doe coxiella burnetti caus atyp pneumonia
__ is a rickettsi disord caus by coxiella burnetti that present as pneumonia. __ is a rickettsi disord caus by coxiella burnetti that present as pneumonia. q fever
rickettsia rickettsii - treatment rickettsia rickettsii - treatment doxycycline, chloramphenicol (especi in context of aplast ic anemia)
whi doesn't rickettsia gram stain cell whi doesn't rickettsia gram stain cell intracellular parasit
which stain is best use to visual rickettsia which stain is best use to visual rickettsia
what is the etiolog of epidem typhus what is the etiolog of epidem typhus rickettsia prowazekii e p idem = p rowazeki
what is the vector for epidem typhus ( rickettsia prowazeki ) what is the vector for epidem typhus ( rickettsia prowazeki ) human bodi louse, fece
what is the etiolog of rocki mountain spot fever what is the etiolog of rocki mountain spot fever rickettsia rickettsii all rickettsia are oblig intracellular organ as they requir coa and nad+. they cannot synthes atp.
what is the vector for rocket mountain spot fever ( rickettsia rickettsii ) what is the vector for rocket mountain spot fever ( rickettsia rickettsii ) dermacentor tick
what is the etiolog of endem typhus what is the etiolog of endem typhus rickettsia typhi
what is the vector for endem typhus ( rickettsia typhi ) what is the vector for endem typhus ( rickettsia typhi ) flea
what is the treatment for all disord caus by rickettsia spp . what is the treatment for all disord caus by rickettsia spp . doxycyclin
__ is a zoonot infect caus by rickettsia rickettsii that present with a rash that typic start at the wrist and ankl and then spread to the trunk, palm and sole . __ is a zoonot infect caus by rickettsia rickettsii that present with a rash that typic start at the wrist and ankl and then spread to the trunk, palm and sole . rocki mountain spot fever
__ is a rickettsi diseas that present with a rash that start central and spread out , but spare the palm and sole . __ is a rickettsi diseas that present with a rash that start central and spread out , but spare the palm and sole . typhus r msf (r. r icketsii) = palms/soles/w r ist t yphus (r. typhi; r. prowazekii) = t runk
___ is a diseas that can be obtain via aerosol spore releas from tick fece or cattl placenta, from coxiella burnetii ___ is a diseas that can be obtain via aerosol spore releas from tick fece or cattl placenta, from coxiella burnetii q fever
__ is a rickettsi disord caus by coxiella burnetti that present as pneumonia. __ is a rickettsi disord caus by coxiella burnetti that present as pneumonia.
what is the primari clinic use of tetracyclin antibiot what is the primari clinic use of tetracyclin antibiot borrelia burgdorferi; mycoplasma pneumoniae; intracellular bug such as rickettsia and chlamydia also use to treat acn
__ is a protein synthesi inhibit antibiot that is use as a second line of treatment to treat rocki mountain spot fever __ is a protein synthesi inhibit antibiot that is use as a second line of treatment to treat rocki mountain spot fever chloramphenicol doxycyclin (tetracyclines) can also be used.
pelvic inflammatori di seas - caus by pelvic inflammatori di seas - caus by chlamydia trachomatis, neisseria gonorrhoea
chlamydophila pneumonia is a small, gram _____ oblig intracellular bacterium that requir atp from host cell for energy. chlamydophila pneumonia is a small, gram _____ oblig intracellular bacterium that requir atp from host cell for energy. negat
___ is an atyp pneumonia that manifest 5-15 day follow infect with chlamydia psittaci . ___ is an atyp pneumonia that manifest 5-15 day follow infect with chlamydia psittaci . psittacosi it is an occup hazard for birdkeepers, breeders, veterinarians, etc
what is the caus of trachoma what is the caus of trachoma chronic chlamydia trachomati infect
___ is a type of inclus conjunct caus by chlamydia trachomati infection, typic in newborns. ___ is a type of inclus conjunct caus by chlamydia trachomati infection, typic in newborns. tric (trachoma inclus bodi conjunctivitis)
what type of antibiot are the first choic drug for chlamydi infect what type of antibiot are the first choic drug for chlamydi infect tetracyclin
what type of seroneg spondyloarthropathi common manifest after chlamydia infect what type of seroneg spondyloarthropathi common manifest after chlamydia infect re arthriti (reiter syndrome)
which serotyp of chlamydia trachomati are associ with ectop pregnanc which serotyp of chlamydia trachomati are associ with ectop pregnanc d-k
__ is an std caus by chlamydia trachomati (l1; l2; l3) that present with swollen, pain inguin lymph node that ulcer into "buboes" in it later stages. __ is an std caus by chlamydia trachomati (l1; l2; l3) that present with swollen, pain inguin lymph node that ulcer into "buboes" in it later stages. lymphogranuloma venereum
__ is an ocular complic of chlamydia. __ is an ocular complic of chlamydia. conjunct
__ is a musculoskelet complic of chlamydia. __ is a musculoskelet complic of chlamydia. re arthriti
chlamydia trachomati - treatment adult and new born chlamydia trachomati - treatment adult and new born doxycyclin (+ ceftriaxon for gonorrhea coinfection) , erythromycin eye drop (prophylaxi in infants)
what is the second most common caus of atyp pneumonia in young adult what is the second most common caus of atyp pneumonia in young adult chlamydia pneumonia
what is the second most common caus of pneumonia in young adults/teenag what is the second most common caus of pneumonia in young adults/teenag chlamydophila pneumonia
__ is a bacteria that caus lymphogranuloma venereum which involv ulcer vulval papul and enlarg inguin lymph nodes. __ is a bacteria that caus lymphogranuloma venereum which involv ulcer vulval papul and enlarg inguin lymph nodes. chlamydia trachomati s erotyp l1 - l3
what is the most common caus of infecti cervic what is the most common caus of infecti cervic chlamydia trachomati
which serotyp of chlamydia trachomati are associ with chronic infect which serotyp of chlamydia trachomati are associ with chronic infect a; b; c
what kind of pneumonia doe chlamydia pneumonia caus what kind of pneumonia doe chlamydia pneumonia caus atyp pneumonia
the ____ bodi  of chlamydia pneumonia is the  that is transmit in aerosol droplet and is contagious. the ____ bodi  of chlamydia pneumonia is the  that is transmit in aerosol droplet and is contagious. elementari
the ____ bodi  of chlamydia pneumonia is metabol  and pathogen  that is osmot fragil and cannot surviv extracellularly. the ____ bodi  of chlamydia pneumonia is metabol  and pathogen  that is osmot fragil and cannot surviv extracellularly. reticul this  yield the symptoms.
what is the etiolog of psittacosi what is the etiolog of psittacosi chlamydia psittaci
which bacteria has a strong suggest linkag to atherosclerosi which bacteria has a strong suggest linkag to atherosclerosi chlamydophila sp.
what is the most common caus of neonat conjunct what is the most common caus of neonat conjunct chlamydia trachomati
which serotyp of chlamydia trachomati are involv with tric (trachoma inclus bodi conjunctivitis) which serotyp of chlamydia trachomati are involv with tric (trachoma inclus bodi conjunctivitis) d--k "trich come from d--k"
which 2 bacteri speci are associ with steril pyuria which 2 bacteri speci are associ with steril pyuria chlamydia trachomati and neisseria gonorhhoea like due to them be intracellular
what is the caus of lymphogranuloma venereum what is the caus of lymphogranuloma venereum chlamydia trachomati serogroup l1-l3
__ + __ are the 2 most common bacteri caus of orchiti in young adult . __ + __ are the 2 most common bacteri caus of orchiti in young adult . chlamydia trachomati (d-k), neisseria gonorrhea
which bacteria is the most common caus of fitz-hugh-curti syndrom secondari to pid which bacteria is the most common caus of fitz-hugh-curti syndrom secondari to pid chlamydia trachomatis, neis. gon
__ + __ are oblig intracellular , pleomorphic, gram-neg bacteria that cannot make their own atp. __ + __ are oblig intracellular , pleomorphic, gram-neg bacteria that cannot make their own atp. rickettsia spp. and chlamydia spp.
what is the etiolog of psittacosi what is the etiolog of psittacosi chlamydophila psittaci
how is psittacosi ( chlamydophila psittaci ) transmit how is psittacosi ( chlamydophila psittaci ) transmit parrot or other bird
what is the etiolog of reiter syndrom what is the etiolog of reiter syndrom chlamydia trachomati
__ is a sugar acid common found in bacteri cell walls, howev not in chlamydia . __ is a sugar acid common found in bacteri cell walls, howev not in chlamydia . muram acid
which serotyp of chlamydia trachomati are associ with urethr and pelvic inflammatori diseas (pid) which serotyp of chlamydia trachomati are associ with urethr and pelvic inflammatori diseas (pid) d-k the d--k serotyp are associ with std/sti (and everyth els not specif to serotyp a, b, c, l1-3)
which serotyp of chlamydia trachomati are associ with neonat pneumonia (staccato cough) which serotyp of chlamydia trachomati are associ with neonat pneumonia (staccato cough) d-k
which serotyp of chlamydia trachomati are associ with neonat conjunct which serotyp of chlamydia trachomati are associ with neonat conjunct d-k neonat diseas is typic acquir dure childbirth through the birth canal.
what is the most common bacteri std in the unit state what is the most common bacteri std in the unit state c hlamydia trachomati
which bacteria often caus subacut pelvic inflammatori diseas (pid) and henc often goe undiagnos which bacteria often caus subacut pelvic inflammatori diseas (pid) and henc often goe undiagnos chlamydia trachomati
whi doesn't chlamydia gram stain well whi doesn't chlamydia gram stain well intacellular; lack muram acid in the cell wall
the __ is the morpholog  of chlamydia that is infecti and enter the host cell via endocytosi . the __ is the morpholog  of chlamydia that is infecti and enter the host cell via endocytosi . elementari bodi e lementari = is " e nfectious" and e nter target host cell via e ndocytosi
the __ is the morpholog  of chlamydia that replic insid the target host cell by fission. the __ is the morpholog  of chlamydia that replic insid the target host cell by fission. reticul bodi r eticul bodi = r eplic into elementari bodi
which chlamydia organ is known to caus follicular conjunct which chlamydia organ is known to caus follicular conjunct chlamydia trachomati
which chlamydia organ is known to caus nongonococc urethr and pelvic inflammatori diseas which chlamydia organ is known to caus nongonococc urethr and pelvic inflammatori diseas chlamydia trachomati }
__ and __ are 2 chlamydia organ that caus atyp pneumonia via aerosol transmission. __ and __ are 2 chlamydia organ that caus atyp pneumonia via aerosol transmission. chlamydophila pneumoniae, chlamydophila psittaci
__ is an std caus by chlamydia trachomati (l1, l2, l3) that initi present with small, painless ulcer on the genitals. __ is an std caus by chlamydia trachomati (l1, l2, l3) that initi present with small, painless ulcer on the genitals. lymphogranuloma venereum
what is the etiolog of lymphogranuloma venereum what is the etiolog of lymphogranuloma venereum chlamydia trachomati serotyp l1-l3
what is the prophylact treatment for gonococc or chlamydi conjunct in newborn what is the prophylact treatment for gonococc or chlamydi conjunct in newborn erythromycin ointment
which stain is use to best visual chlamydia which stain is use to best visual chlamydia
which serotyp of chlamydia trachomati are associ with blind due to follicular conjunctivitis, especi in africa which serotyp of chlamydia trachomati are associ with blind due to follicular conjunctivitis, especi in africa a; b; c abc = a frica; b lindness; c onjunctivitis/ c hronic infect
___ is an std caus by chlamydia trachomati serotyp l1-l3 that present with infect of lymphat , painless genit ulcer and pain lymphadenopathi (buboes). ___ is an std caus by chlamydia trachomati serotyp l1-l3 that present with infect of lymphat , painless genit ulcer and pain lymphadenopathi (buboes). lymphogranuloma venereum
__ is a type of re arthriti that is caus by chlamydia trachomati . __ is a type of re arthriti that is caus by chlamydia trachomati . reiter syndrom
which serotyp of chlamydia trachomati are associ with lymphogranuloma venereum which serotyp of chlamydia trachomati are associ with lymphogranuloma venereum l1; l2; l3
__, ___, and ___ are bacteria associ with atyp pneumonia. __, ___, and ___ are bacteria associ with atyp pneumonia. mycoplasma , legionella and c hlamydia
which system mycosi is endem in mississippi and the ohio river valley which system mycosi is endem in mississippi and the ohio river valley histoplasmosi caus pneumonia .
how is histoplasmosi common transmit how is histoplasmosi common transmit bird or bat drop
__ is a system mycosi that present with macrophag fill with histoplasma , as they are smaller than rbcs. __ is a system mycosi that present with macrophag fill with histoplasma , as they are smaller than rbcs. histoplasmosi h isto h ide in macrophag
which system mycosi involv intracellular yeast that are smaller than rbcs which system mycosi involv intracellular yeast that are smaller than rbcs histoplasmosi
__ is an opportunist fungus that is known to caus system diseas in hiv patient that involv low-grad fevers, cough, hepatosplenomegali and tongu ulcer . __ is an opportunist fungus that is known to caus system diseas in hiv patient that involv low-grad fevers, cough, hepatosplenomegali and tongu ulcer . histoplasma capsulatum cd4+ 100 cell/mm 3
which morpholog type of fungi are known to caus system mycos which morpholog type of fungi are known to caus system mycos dimorph fungi; except for coccidiomycosi (spherul in tissue, not yeast) remember, dimorph fungi are: - mold in the cold (20 c) - yeast in the heat (37 c)
__ is a system mycosi that is endem in the southwestern unit state and california . __ is a system mycosi that is endem in the southwestern unit state and california . coccidiomycosi caus pneumonia and meningitis. can dissemin to bone and skin.
which system mycos often show an increas in case rate after earthquak which system mycos often show an increas in case rate after earthquak coccidiomycosi this is due to spore in dust be thrown up into the air and becom spherul in the lungs.
__ is a system mycosi that present with spherul fill with endospores. __ is a system mycosi that present with spherul fill with endospores. coccidiomycosi
__ is a system mycosi that present with erythema nodosum ("desert bumps") and arthralgia ("desert rheumatism"). __ is a system mycosi that present with erythema nodosum ("desert bumps") and arthralgia ("desert rheumatism"). coccidiomycosi
____ is a system mycosi that present with spherul that are much larger than rbcs . ____ is a system mycosi that present with spherul that are much larger than rbcs . coccidiomycosi
__ is a system mycosi that present with bud yeast with a "captain wheel " at that is much larger than rbcs . __ is a system mycosi that present with bud yeast with a "captain wheel " at that is much larger than rbcs . paracoccidioidomycosi
__ is an azol antifung agent that is use to treat blastomyces, coccidioid and histoplasma infection. __ is an azol antifung agent that is use to treat blastomyces, coccidioid and histoplasma infection. itraconazol
__ is an inflammatori disord of the skin that is often idiopath but can be associ with sarcoidosis, coccidioidomycosis, histoplasmosis, tb, streptococc infections, leprosi and crohn disease. __ is an inflammatori disord of the skin that is often idiopath but can be associ with sarcoidosis, coccidioidomycosis, histoplasmosis, tb, streptococc infections, leprosi and crohn disease. erythema nodosum
__ is a system mycosi that is endem in latin america . __ is a system mycosi that is endem in latin america . paracoccidioidomycosi
candida albican (systemic) (oral thrush, esophagitis) - treatment candida albican (systemic) (oral thrush, esophagitis) - treatment amphotericin b (systemic), nystatin (oral thrush, esophagitis)
__ is a yeast that common caus oral thrush. it has both hypha and pseudophyphae. __ is a yeast that common caus oral thrush. it has both hypha and pseudophyphae. candida albican
which fungi common caus vagin thrush in diabet which fungi common caus vagin thrush in diabet candida albican
___ is a dimorph fungi that common caus oral and esophag thrush in the immunocompromised. ___ is a dimorph fungi that common caus oral and esophag thrush in the immunocompromised. candida albican neonates, steroids, diabetes, aids.
__ is a dimorph fungi that common caus vulvovagin , especi in diabet and follow antibiot use. __ is a dimorph fungi that common caus vulvovagin , especi in diabet and follow antibiot use. candida albican
___ is a dimorph fungi that common caus diaper rash. ___ is a dimorph fungi that common caus diaper rash. candida albican
which dimorph fungi common caus endocard in iv drug user which dimorph fungi common caus endocard in iv drug user candida albican
__ is a dimorph fungi that common caus opportunist infect and present as pseudohyphae/bud yeast at 20 c and germ tube at 37 c. __ is a dimorph fungi that common caus opportunist infect and present as pseudohyphae/bud yeast at 20 c and germ tube at 37 c. candida albican pseudohyphae/bud yeast on the left. germ tube on the right.
__ is an opportunist fungus that caus oral thrush/esophag in hiv patient that present with fluffi white cottage-chees lesions. __ is an opportunist fungus that caus oral thrush/esophag in hiv patient that present with fluffi white cottage-chees lesions. candida albican
what cd4+ cell count is associ with esophag caus by candida albican in hiv patient what cd4+ cell count is associ with esophag caus by candida albican in hiv patient 100 cells/mm 3
[...] is a nocosomi infect that has hyperaliment as a risk factor. candida albican is a nocosomi infect that has hyperaliment as a risk factor. candida albican
what is the catalas express of aspergillus what is the catalas express of aspergillus posit
__ is an opportunist fungal infect that is common seen in patient with chronic granulomat disease. __ is an opportunist fungal infect that is common seen in patient with chronic granulomat disease. aspergillosi also seen in the immunocompromised.
___ is an opportunist fungal speci that present with septat hypha that branch at 45 degre angl . ___ is an opportunist fungal speci that present with septat hypha that branch at 45 degre angl . asperigllus fumigatus } acut angl in aspergillosis. not dimorphic.
__ are mass of aspergillosi fumigatus that are common seen in lung cavities, especi after tuberculosis. __ are mass of aspergillosi fumigatus that are common seen in lung cavities, especi after tuberculosis. aspergilloma
___ is a toxin produc by aspergillosi sp. that is associ with caus hepatocellular carcinoma. ___ is a toxin produc by aspergillosi sp. that is associ with caus hepatocellular carcinoma. aflatoxin
___ is an opportunist fungus that caus invas aspergillosi in hiv patient that present with pleurit pain, hemoptysi and infiltr on imaging. ___ is an opportunist fungus that caus invas aspergillosi in hiv patient that present with pleurit pain, hemoptysi and infiltr on imaging. aspergillus fumigatus
which fungus genus that grow in grain and nut is associ with hepatocellular carcinoma which fungus genus that grow in grain and nut is associ with hepatocellular carcinoma aspergillus ; via aflatoxin
[...] is an opportunistic, septate, filament fungus that caus invas aspergillosis. aspergillus fumigatus is an opportunistic, septate, filament fungus that caus invas aspergillosis. a spergillus fumigatus
which toxin from aspergillus is abl to caus hepatocellular carcinoma which toxin from aspergillus is abl to caus hepatocellular carcinoma aflatoxin
what is the doc for invas aspergillosi what is the doc for invas aspergillosi voriconazole, echinocandin
which fungi are associ with infect in neutropen patient which fungi are associ with infect in neutropen patient c andida albicans; aspergillus
__ is a fungus that is associ with the carcinogen aflatoxin and is often a contamin of rice, grain and peanut . __ is a fungus that is associ with the carcinogen aflatoxin and is often a contamin of rice, grain and peanut . aspergillus
what cancer is associ with aflatoxin b1 from aspergillus flavus what cancer is associ with aflatoxin b1 from aspergillus flavus hepatocellular carcinoma common seen in contamin rice, corn, grain and peanut
what is the mechan through which aflatoxin from aspergillus induc hepatocellular carcinoma what is the mechan through which aflatoxin from aspergillus induc hepatocellular carcinoma induct of p53 mutat
__ is a pulmonari disord caus by aspergillosi fumigatus that is associ with asthma and cystic fibrosi .ee __ is a pulmonari disord caus by aspergillosi fumigatus that is associ with asthma and cystic fibrosi .ee allerg bronchopulmonari aspergillosi (abpa) may caus bronchiectasi and eosinophilia.
which fungus is known to make aflatoxin which fungus is known to make aflatoxin aspergillus
__ is a carcinogen deriv from aspergillus , a fungus that often contamin rice, grain and peanut . __ is a carcinogen deriv from aspergillus , a fungus that often contamin rice, grain and peanut . aflatoxin
what is the ureas express of cryptococcus what is the ureas express of cryptococcus posit
__ is an opportunist fungus that present as 5-10 um yeast with wide capsular halo and unequ budding. __ is an opportunist fungus that present as 5-10 um yeast with wide capsular halo and unequ budding. cryptococcus neoan the stain use is india ink
which opportunist fungus caus cryptococc mening and cryptococcosi which opportunist fungus caus cryptococc mening and cryptococcosi cryptococcus neoan
how is cryptococcus neoan infect acquir how is cryptococcus neoan infect acquir inhalation; spread to the mening hematogen
which opportunist fungus is associ with "soap bubble" lesion in the brain which opportunist fungus is associ with "soap bubble" lesion in the brain cryptococcus neoan
cryptococcus neoan (prophylaxi in aid patients) cryptococcus neoan (prophylaxi in aid patients) fluconazol
__ is an encapsulated, monomorph yeast fungus that caus pulmonari cryptococcosis. __ is an encapsulated, monomorph yeast fungus that caus pulmonari cryptococcosis. crytpcoccus neoan
___ is a cns infect typic seen in the immunocompromis that involv chronic basal meningitis, soap bubbl cyst ___ is a cns infect typic seen in the immunocompromis that involv chronic basal meningitis, soap bubbl cyst cryptococc meningoenceph
what stain is use to visual cryptococcus neoan in the perivascular space in the cns what stain is use to visual cryptococcus neoan in the perivascular space in the cns mucicarmin or india ink
__ is a heavili encapsul yest that is common found in soil and pigeon droppings. __ is a heavili encapsul yest that is common found in soil and pigeon droppings. cryptococcus neoan
what stain is use to visual cryptococcus neoan what stain is use to visual cryptococcus neoan india ink and mucicarmin
____ is a diagnost test use to detect the polysaccharid capsular antigen of cryptococcus neoan . ____ is a diagnost test use to detect the polysaccharid capsular antigen of cryptococcus neoan . latex agglutin test specif test.
__ is an opportunist fungus that caus mening in hiv patients. __ is an opportunist fungus that caus mening in hiv patients. cryptococcus neoan india-ink stain will reveal a yeast with narrow-bas bud and larg capsule.
__ is an azol antifung that is use for chronic suppress of cryptococc mening in aid patient and candid infect of all types. __ is an azol antifung that is use for chronic suppress of cryptococc mening in aid patient and candid infect of all types. fluconazol
__ is an unusu  of sinus characteris by invas and destruct fungi. __ is an unusu  of sinus characteris by invas and destruct fungi. mucormycosi
____ is an invas and destruct  of infecti sinus that involv broad, septat hypha that bend at 90 degre angles. ____ is an invas and destruct  of infecti sinus that involv broad, septat hypha that bend at 90 degre angles. mucormycosi
____ is an opportunist yeast infect that is most seen in ketoacidot diabet and leukem patients. ____ is an opportunist yeast infect that is most seen in ketoacidot diabet and leukem patients. mucormycosi the fungi prolifer in the blood vessel wall when there is an excess of keton and glucose. from there they penetr the cribi plate and enter the brain. typic caus by mucor sp. and rhizopus spp.
__ is an opportunist fungal infect that involv prolifer of fungi in the blood vessel wall due to an excess of keton and glucose. __ is an opportunist fungal infect that involv prolifer of fungi in the blood vessel wall due to an excess of keton and glucose. mucormycosi from there the penetr the cribi plate and enter the brain.
__ is an opportunist fungal infect that present with rhinocerebr and frontal lobe abscess . __ is an opportunist fungal infect that present with rhinocerebr and frontal lobe abscess . mucormycosi
__ is an opportunist fungal infect that present with headach , facial pain , and a black necrot eschar on the face . __ is an opportunist fungal infect that present with headach , facial pain , and a black necrot eschar on the face . mucormycosi there may be cranial nerv involv as well.
____ is a speci of opportunist fungus that can caus mucormycosi and present as irregular, broad, nonsept hypha branch at wide angles. ____ is a speci of opportunist fungus that can caus mucormycosi and present as irregular, broad, nonsept hypha branch at wide angles. mucor spp.
what is the treatment for mucormycosi what is the treatment for mucormycosi amphotericin b
___ and ___ are 2 speci of opportunist fungus that can caus mucormycosis. ___ and ___ are 2 speci of opportunist fungus that can caus mucormycosis. mucor spp., rhizopus spp.
__ is a life-threaten infect common caus by rhizopus sp. that is a complic of diabet ketoacidosis. __ is a life-threaten infect common caus by rhizopus sp. that is a complic of diabet ketoacidosis. mucormycosi
pneumocysti jirovecii (prophylaxi in aid pat ient) pneumocysti jirovecii (prophylaxi in aid pat ient) tmp-smx
which antibiot is the doc for pneumocysti jiroveci which antibiot is the doc for pneumocysti jiroveci cotrimoxazol (tmp-smz)
which stain is use to visual fungi (e.g. pneumocysti ) which stain is use to visual fungi (e.g. pneumocysti ) silver stain
which speci of pneumocysti caus pneumocysti pneumonia which speci of pneumocysti caus pneumocysti pneumonia pneumocysti jirovecii a diffus interstiti pneumonia seen in the immunocompromised, especi aids. most infect are asymptomatic. diagnos by lung biopsi or lavage.
how is pneumocysti jirovecii acquir how is pneumocysti jirovecii acquir inhal
which opportunist fungus is associ with a pneumonia that yield a diffuse, bilater chest x-ray which opportunist fungus is associ with a pneumonia that yield a diffuse, bilater chest x-ray pneumocysti jirovecii
__ is an opportunist fungus that is a disc-shap yeast that  of methenamin silver stain of lung tissue. __ is an opportunist fungus that is a disc-shap yeast that  of methenamin silver stain of lung tissue. pneumocysti jirovecii
what is the treatment for pneumocysti jirovecii what is the treatment for pneumocysti jirovecii tmp-smx; pentamidin
what cd4+ cell count is associ with pneumocysti pneumonia what cd4+ cell count is associ with pneumocysti pneumonia 200 cells/mm 3
what is the prophylact treatment for pneumocysti pneumonia in an hiv patient with 200 cd4+ cells/mm 3 what is the prophylact treatment for pneumocysti pneumonia in an hiv patient with 200 cd4+ cells/mm 3 tmp-smx
what is the prophylact treatment for pneumocysti pneumonia and toxoplasmosi in an hiv patient with 200 cd4+ cells/mm 3 what is the prophylact treatment for pneumocysti pneumonia and toxoplasmosi in an hiv patient with 200 cd4+ cells/mm 3 tmp-smx
where doe entercoccus faecalis/faecium resid usual where doe entercoccus faecalis/faecium resid usual gi tract of human and other mammal
_____ is an exotoxin from vibrio cholera that over adenyl cyclas through perman  of the g s subunit via adp ribosylation, therebi increas cl secret and h2o efflux at the gut. _____ is an exotoxin from vibrio cholera that over adenyl cyclas through perman  of the g s subunit via adp ribosylation, therebi increas cl secret and h2o efflux at the gut. cholera toxin
[...] , cefaclor and cefuroxim are 2nd generat cephalosporin that are use to treat gram-posit cocci, haemophilus influenzae, enterobact aerogenes, neisseria spp, proteus mirabilis, escherichia coli, klebsiella pneumonia and serratia marcescens. cefoxitin , cefaclor and cefuroxim are 2nd generat cephalosporin that are use to treat gram-posit cocci, haemophilus influenzae, enterobact aerogenes, neisseria spp, proteus mirabilis, escherichia coli, klebsiella pneumonia and serratia marcescens. 2nd generat cephalosporin are " hen peck ": - haemophilus influenza - enterobact aerogen - neisseria spp. - proteus mirabili - escherichia coli - klebsiella pneumonia - serratia marcescen
cefoxitin, [...] and cefuroxim are 2nd generat cephalosporin that are use to treat gram-posit cocci, haemophilus influenzae, enterobact aerogenes, neisseria spp, proteus mirabilis, escherichia coli, klebsiella pneumonia and serratia marcescens. cefoxitin, cefaclor and cefuroxim are 2nd generat cephalosporin that are use to treat gram-posit cocci, haemophilus influenzae, enterobact aerogenes, neisseria spp, proteus mirabilis, escherichia coli, klebsiella pneumonia and serratia marcescens. 2nd generat cephalosporin are " hen peck ": - haemophilus influenza - enterobact aerogen - neisseria spp. - proteus mirabili - escherichia coli - klebsiella pneumonia - serratia marcescen
cefoxitin, cefaclor and [...] are 2nd generat cephalosporin that are use to treat gram-posit cocci, haemophilus influenzae, enterobact aerogenes, neisseria spp, proteus mirabilis, escherichia coli, klebsiella pneumonia and serratia marcescens. cefoxitin, cefaclor and cefuroxim are 2nd generat cephalosporin that are use to treat gram-posit cocci, haemophilus influenzae, enterobact aerogenes, neisseria spp, proteus mirabilis, escherichia coli, klebsiella pneumonia and serratia marcescens. 2nd generat cephalosporin are " hen peck ": - haemophilus influenza - enterobact aerogen - neisseria spp. - proteus mirabili - escherichia coli - klebsiella pneumonia - serratia marcescen
[...] and rifabutin are rifamycin antimycobacteri that function to inhibit dna-depend rna polymerase. rifampin and rifabutin are rifamycin antimycobacteri that function to inhibit dna-depend rna polymerase.
rifampin and [...] are rifamycin antimycobacteri that function to inhibit dna-depend rna polymerase. rifampin and rifabutin are rifamycin antimycobacteri that function to inhibit dna-depend rna polymerase.
[...] and rifabutin are rifamycin antimycobacteri that function to inhibit dna-depend rna polymerase. rifampin and rifabutin are rifamycin antimycobacteri that function to inhibit dna-depend rna polymerase.
rifampin and [...] are rifamycin antimycobacteri that function to inhibit dna-depend rna polymerase. rifampin and rifabutin are rifamycin antimycobacteri that function to inhibit dna-depend rna polymerase.
[...] is a folat synthesi inhibit antibiot that caus megaloblast anaemia, leukopenia, and granulocytopenia as complications. trimethoprim is a folat synthesi inhibit antibiot that caus megaloblast anaemia, leukopenia, and granulocytopenia as complications. tmp t reat m arrow p oorly.
what is the moa of nafcillin inhibit of transpeptidase, therebi inhibit peptidoglycan cross-link
____ and ______ are aminopenicillin that are use to kill haemophilus influenzae, escherichia coli, listeria monocytogenes, proteus mirabilis, salmonella and shigella and enterococci. amoxicillin, ampicillin
__ is a cns complic of sulfonamid use that is seen in infant and aris due to hyperbilirubinemia. kernicterus
what is the endocrine/reproduct toxic of sulfonamid hypothyroid
what is the treatment for pseudomona aeruginosa :beta-lactam (± aminoglycoside)
____ is a hepat complic of macrolid antibiot use. cholestat hepat
______ are a class of protein synthesi inhibit antibiot that increas the serum concentr of theophyllin and oral anticoagul . macrolid
what is the moa of fluoroquinolon antibiot inhibit of dna gyras (topoisomeras ii) and topoisomeras iv must not be taken with antacid .
what is the common suffix for macrolid antibiot thromycin
what generat cephalosporin is cephalexin 1st
____ and ____ are 1st generat cephalosporin that are use to treat gram-posit cocci, proteus mirabilis, escherichia coli and klebsiella pneumonia cefazolin, cephalexin
what generat cephalosporin is cefazolin 1st
hemolysi in g6pd-defici pts - what drug caus this isoniazid (inh) sulfonamid primaquin aspirin ibuprofen nitrofurantoin
____ is a protein synthesi inhibit antibiot that act at the 50s ribosom subunit to treat mrsa and vre. linzeolid
___ are a class of antibiot that are avoid in pregnanc as they caus cartilag damage. fluoroquinolon
what drug are the most common caus of nephrotox acut tubular necrosi aminoglycosid (use for t2dm)
(3) are 3rd generat cephalosporin that are use to treat serious gram-neg infect that are resist to other beta-lactams. ceftriaxone, cefotaxime, ceftazimid
____ is a 5th generat cephalosporin use to treat mrsa. ceftarolin
___ is a  of staphylococcus aureus that is resist to methicillin and nafcillin due to alter penicillin- proteins. mrsa
what is the treatment for infect endometr gentamicin + clindamycin ± ampicillin
__ is a possibl complic of clindamycin use due to  clostridium difficil overgrowth. pseudomembr colit
what is the hematolog toxic of sulfonamid hemolysi in g6pd defici
what class of antibiot is tobramycin aminoglycosid
what is the treatment for mucos haemophilus influenza infect amoxicillin (+/- clavulanate)
__ is a monobactam antibiot that is use in patient with penicillin allergi or in patient with renal insuffici that cannot toler aminoglycosides. aztreonam
which aminopenicillin has greater oral bioavail amox
what is the pregnanc rate of fluoroquinolon x; contraind due to possibl damag to cartilag fluoroquinolon are also contraind in nurs mother and children 18 y/o
____ is a cutan complic of sulfonamid use. photosensit
which special cultur media/agar is use to isol neisseria gonorrhoea or neisseria meningitidi thayer-martin (vpn) media
__ is an antibiot that is use in thayer-martin (vpn) media as it inhibit gram-posit orgnanisms. vancomycin
what is the treatment for clostridium difficil metronidazole; oral vancomycin
___, ____, and _____ are 3 possibl complic associ with vancomycin use. nephrotoxicity, ototox and thrombophleb howev in general, vancomycin is well tolerated. "it is however, not troubl free." - nephrotox - ototox - thrombophleb
what is the moa of amoxicillin inhibit of transpeptidase, therebi inhibit peptidoglycan cross-link
___ is an immunolog complic of macrolid antibiotics. eosinophilia
what is the mechan of resist against macrolid antibiot methyl of the 23s rrna- site, therebi prevent  of the drug
which class of antibiot can prolong the qt interv macrolid
is a 4th generat cephalosporin that has increas  against pseudomona and gram-positives. pime
__ is a 5th generat cephalosporin that has broad-spectrum coverag against gram-neg and gram-posit organisms, includ mrsa. ceftarolin
___ is a protein synthesi inhibit antibiot that is known to treat anearob infect abov the diaphragm (e.g. aspir pneumonia, lung abscesses, oral infections). clindamycin
which is the teratogen effect of aminoglycosid cn viii toxic
what is the moa of dicloxacillin inhibit of transpeptidase, therebi inhibit the cross-link of peptidoglycan
__ + __ are aminopenicillin that are sensit to penicillinas but have a wider spectrum. ampicillin and amoxicillin
__ is a beta-lactamas inhibitor that is often administ with ampicillin and amoxicillin as they are penicillinas sensitive. clavuln
__ is a gi complic of aminopenicillin use (amoxicillin/ampicillin) that  from overgrowth of clostridium difficil in the gi tract. pseudomembran coliti
what is the gi toxic of ampicillin pseudomembran coliti
what is the most common caus of infecti arthriti what is the most common caus of infecti arthriti neisseria gonorrhea
__ is a topic antifung that is use as a "swish and swallow" treatment for oral candidiasis. nystatin also administ topic for diaper rash or vagin candidiasis.
drug induc sle is common seen in patient who are slow acetyl and have taken either procainamide, ____, or hydralazine. isoniazid
which patholog is associ with bite cell which patholog is associ with bite cell g6pd defici
___ are intracellular inclus of oxid hemoglobin that precipit within rbcs in g6pd deficiency. ___ are intracellular inclus of oxid hemoglobin that precipit within rbcs in g6pd deficiency. heinz bodi
which mycobaterium sp. make up the mac which mycobaterium sp. make up the mac mycobacterium avium and mycobacterium intracellular
which mycobacteria speci caus disseminated, non-tb diseas in aid patient which mycobacteria speci caus disseminated, non-tb diseas in aid patient mycobacterium avium-intracellular often resist to multipl drugs.
which antimycobacterial/antibiot drug is use as prophylaxi for mycobacterium avium-intracellular which antimycobacterial/antibiot drug is use as prophylaxi for mycobacterium avium-intracellular azithromycin; rifabutin; clarithromycin
__ is a speci of mycobacterium that is more drug resist than mycobacterium tuberculosis. __ is a speci of mycobacterium that is more drug resist than mycobacterium tuberculosis. mycobacterium avium-intracellular henc it requir azithromycin/clarithromycin + ethambutol ± rifabutin/ciprofloxacin
what is the prophylact treatment for mycobacterium avium-intracellular in an hiv patient with 50 cd4+ cells/mm 3 what is the prophylact treatment for mycobacterium avium-intracellular in an hiv patient with 50 cd4+ cells/mm 3 azithromycin
candida albican (systemic) (oral thrush, esophagitis) - treatment amphotericin b (systemic), nystatin (oral thrush, esophagitis)
__ is an antifung that has a low therapeut index due to it non-select  to cholesterol (ergosterol and human cholesterol). amphotericin b
what is the treatment for system mycos amphotericin b
what is the treatment for mucormycosi amphotericin b
what is the moa of the antifung amphotericin b  to ergosterol in the fungal cell membrane, therebi  a membran pore that allow the leakag of electrolyt ampho" tear" -icin " tear " a hole into the fungal membran by  a pore.
what is the roa of amphotericin b in the treatment of fungal mening intrathec
___ is a complic of amphotericin b administr that is describ as "shake and bake" . fever/chil
how can amphotericin b nephrotox be decreas hydrat
__ is an antifung agent that is use combin with amphotericin b to treat system mycoses. flucytosin especi mening caus by cryptococcus.
which type of renal tubular acidosi is associ with amphotericin b toxic type 1/distal
__ is an antifung drug that requir subsequ k and mg supplement due to alter renal tubul permeability. amphotericin b
__ is an antifung agent that is use in serious, system mycoses. amphotericin b
what is the treatment for nocardia spp. infect sulfonamid e.g. sulfamethoxazol (smx)
how do azol antifung influenc cytochrom p450  decreas
what is the treatment for system candidiasi fluconazole, amphotericin b or caspofungin
what is the treatment for local mycos fluconazol or itraconazol
what is the moa of azol antifung inhibit of ergosterol synthesi by inhibit the cytochrom p450 enzym that convert lanosterol to ergosterol
what is the treatment for vagin candidiasi (vulvovaginitis) a topic azol
__ are a class of antifung that are use for local and less serious system mycoses. azol
___ is an azol antifung that is use for chronic suppress of cryptococc mening in aid patient and candid infect of all types. flucon
what is the doc for invas aspergillosi voriconazol
what is the moa of nystatin  to ergosterol in the fungal cell membran and  a membran pore, therebi allow the leakag of electrolyt
__ is an antifung agent that inhibit dna and rna biosynthesi by convers to 5-fluorouracil by cytosin deaminase. flucytosin
__ are a class of antifung that inhibit ergosterol biosynthesi by inhibit fungal ianosterol 14-demethylase, a cyp450 depend enzyme. azol
___ is a sterol molecul that is uniqu found in fungal plasma membranes. ___ is a sterol molecul that is uniqu found in fungal plasma membranes. ergosterol
which fungal speci is associ with esophag in the immunocompromis that present with a white pseudomembran which fungal speci is associ with esophag in the immunocompromis that present with a white pseudomembran candida spp.
what is the most common caus of fungal esophag what is the most common caus of fungal esophag candida common in immunosuppress and diabetics.
what is the doc in esophag candidiasi fluconazol
___ is an azol antifung agent that is use to treat blastomyces, coccidioid and histoplasma infection. itraconazol
__ + ___ are azol antifung that are use topic for fungal infections. cotrimazole, miconazol
__ and __ are azol antifung that are use topic for fungal infections. __ and __ are azol antifung that are use topic for fungal infections. cotrimazole, miconazol
gynecomastia spironolacton digitali cimetidin chronic alcohol use estrogen ketoconazol
___ is an antifung agent that inhibit cyp450 involv with steroid hormon synthesis. it is use in cush syndrome. ketoconazol
which azol antifung is especi known to inhibit testosteron synthesi and caus gynecomastia ketoconazol
__ is a hormon complic of azol antifung use due to inhibit of testosteron synthesis. gynecomastia especi seen with ketoconazole.
how doe ketoconazol influenc cytochrom p450  decreas
what is the common suffix for ergosterol synthesi inhibitor -azol e.g. ketoconazol
how doe ketoconazol influenc cholesterol desmolas  inhibit
___ is an antifung agent sed to treat hirsut in pcod by inhibit 17,20-desmolas , an enzym involv in steroid synthesis. ketoconazol
what is the moa of ketoconazol in the prevent of hirsut in pcod inhibit of 17,20-desmolase, an enzym involv with steroid synthesi
which 2 side effect are associ with ketoconazol and spironolacton in the prevent of hirsut in pcod gynecomastia; amenorrhea
___ is an antifung that inhibit fungal mitosi via disrupt of the mitot spindl by interact with polymer microtubules. griseofulvin
how doe griseofulvin influenc p450  increas especi increas warfarin metabolism.
__ is an antifung that is use to treat dermatophyt infect of the skin, hair, beard and nails. griseofulvin
___ is an anti-fung agent that target microtubules. griseofulvin
___ is an antifung agent that interfer with microtubul function, therebi disrupt mitosis. griseofulvin
what is the moa of griseofulvin interefer with microtubules, therebi disrupt mitosi
which antifung agent is known to deposit in keratin-contain tissu griseofulvin
how doe griseofulvin influenc cytochrom p450  increas
___ is an antifung agent that is use to treat dermatophytoses, especi onychomycosis. terbinafin
what is the moa of the antifung terbinafin inhibit of squalen epoxidas
____ is an antifung agent that inhibit squalen epoxidase, therebi inhibit ergosterol synthesis. terbinafin
what is the clinic use of terbinafin dermatophytos (especially, onychomycosis)
__ are a class of antifung that are non-competit inhibitor of the fungal enzym complex beta(1-3)-d-glucan synthase, therebi disrupt fungal cell wall growth. echinocandin all are iv and all end in -fungin (anidulafungin, caspofungin, micafungin).
what is the clinic use of echinocandin antifung invas aspergillosis; candida spp.
__ are a class of antifung agent that function to inhibit cell wall synthesi by inhibit the synthesi of beta-glucan. echinocandin caspofungin; micafungin; anidulafungin
what is the moa of echinocandin antifung (caspofungin; micafungin; anidulafungin) inhibit of fungal cell wall synthesi by inhibit the synthesi of beta-glucan
what type of food is associ with bacillus cereus food poison what type of food is associ with bacillus cereus food poison rice henc " reheat rice syndrom ". spore surviv the cook of rice. keep rice warm  in germin of the spore and subsequ enterotoxin ation.
the bacteri capsul is normal made of polysaccharides, except in__ whose capsul contain d-glutamate. the bacteri capsul is normal made of polysaccharides, except in__ whose capsul contain d-glutamate. bacillus anthraci "poli d"
which amino acid is a key compon of the bacteri capsul in bacillus anthraci which amino acid is a key compon of the bacteri capsul in bacillus anthraci d-glutam
__ is an exotoxin from bacillus anthraci that mimic adenyl cyclase, therebi increas camp levels. __ is an exotoxin from bacillus anthraci that mimic adenyl cyclase, therebi increas camp levels. edema factor
what is the moa of edema factor toxin from bacillus anthraci what is the moa of edema factor toxin from bacillus anthraci mimicri of adenyl cyclase, therebi increas camp level
__ is an exotoxin from bacillus anthraci that is like respons for the characterist edemat border of black eschar seen in cutan anthrax. __ is an exotoxin from bacillus anthraci that is like respons for the characterist edemat border of black eschar seen in cutan anthrax. lethal factor toxin
which chemic compound found in the core of bacteri spore function to contribut to their heat resist which chemic compound found in the core of bacteri spore function to contribut to their heat resist dipicolin acid spore must be autoclav to be kill (steam at 121 c for 15 min). spore  gram-posit in soil: - bacillus anthraci - clostridium perfringen - clostridium tetani other spore  bactera: - bacillus cereus - clostridium botulinum - coxiella burnetti
__ is a gram-positive, spore- rod that caus anthrax via the anthrax toxin. __ is a gram-positive, spore- rod that caus anthrax via the anthrax toxin. bacillus anthraci
what is the onli bacterium with a polypeptid capsul what is the onli bacterium with a polypeptid capsul bacillus anthraci it contain d-glutam
which amino acid make up the polypeptid capsul of bacillus anthraci which amino acid make up the polypeptid capsul of bacillus anthraci d-glutam
what type of anthrax is obtain through the inhal of bacillus anthraci spore what type of anthrax is obtain through the inhal of bacillus anthraci spore pulmonari anthrax
___, atyp bacteria, __, and ___ are bacteria that are not affect by cephalosporins. listeria, mrsa, enterococci "lame"
which age group is common affect by mening caus by listeria monocytogen which age group is common affect by mening caus by listeria monocytogen neonates; newborn remember, listeria can be acquir transvagin dure childbirth.
besid ingest of contamin food, how is listeria monocytogen transmit besid ingest of contamin food, how is listeria monocytogen transmit transplacentally; vagin dure childbirth listeria monocytogen can caus amnionitis, septicemia and spontan abort in pregnant women.
what is the onli gram-posit bacteria to produc lipopolysaccharid (lps) what is the onli gram-posit bacteria to produc lipopolysaccharid (lps) listeria monocytogen
what food are associ with acquisit of listeria monocytogen what food are associ with acquisit of listeria monocytogen unpasteur dairy; deli meat
what type of hemolysi is exhibit by listeria monocytogen what type of hemolysi is exhibit by listeria monocytogen beta-hemolysi tumbl motility; mening in newborns; unpasteur milk.
what type of motil doe listeria monocytogen have what type of motil doe listeria monocytogen have tumbl
__ is a gram-posit facult intracellular bacteria that  "rocket tails" via manipul of actin filaments, therebi allow them to move through the cytoplasm and cell-to-cel without enter the ecf. __ is a gram-posit facult intracellular bacteria that  "rocket tails" via manipul of actin filaments, therebi allow them to move through the cytoplasm and cell-to-cel without enter the ecf. listeria monocytogen this way, listeria is abl to avoid antibodies.
which bug is associ with branch rod in an oral infect with sulfur-contain granul which bug is associ with branch rod in an oral infect with sulfur-contain granul actinomyc israelii
what is the gram stain of actinomyc what is the gram stain of actinomyc positive; also filament
where in the bodi is actinomyc normal found where in the bodi is actinomyc normal found oral caviti
__ and __ are both gram-posit bacteria that  long, branch filament resembl fungi. __ and __ are both gram-posit bacteria that  long, branch filament resembl fungi. actinomyc spp., nocardia spp.
what is the oxygen depend of nocardia spp . aerob
what is the treatment for nocardia spp. infect what is the treatment for nocardia spp. infect sulfonamid e.g. sulfamethoxazol (smx)
___ is a gram-positive, filament bacteria that is normal found in soil. ___ is a gram-positive, filament bacteria that is normal found in soil. nocardia spp.
what is the ureas express of nocardia spp what is the ureas express of nocardia spp posit
which stain (other than gram) is requir to visual nocardia spp. which stain (other than gram) is requir to visual nocardia spp. acid fast; nocardia is weak acid fast
__ + __ are the onli 2 clinic relev acid-fast bacteria. __ + __ are the onli 2 clinic relev acid-fast bacteria. mycobacterium sp., n ocardia sp
red "currant jelly" sputum in alcohol or diabet patient red "currant jelly" sputum in alcohol or diabet patient klebsiella pneumonia
nosocomi pneumonia (3) nosocomi pneumonia (3) klebsiella, e. coli, pseudomona aeruginosa
which anti-biot is use to treat klebsiella pneumonia infect which anti-biot is use to treat klebsiella pneumonia infect penicillin (augmentin)
__ + __ are 2 gram-neg bacteria known to caus uti that yield a posit urinari ureas test . __ + __ are 2 gram-neg bacteria known to caus uti that yield a posit urinari ureas test . proteus spp., klebsiella spp.
which bug is associ with red "currant jelly" sputum which bug is associ with red "currant jelly" sputum klebsiella
__ is an enter flora that caus lobar pneumonia in patient with an increas risk of aspiration, such as the elderly, diabet or alcholics. __ is an enter flora that caus lobar pneumonia in patient with an increas risk of aspiration, such as the elderly, diabet or alcholics. klebsiella pneumonia
what is the ureas express of klebsiella spp. what is the ureas express of klebsiella spp. posit
__ is a gram-neg instestin bacteria that caus lobar pneumonia in alcohol and diabet when aspirated. __ is a gram-neg instestin bacteria that caus lobar pneumonia in alcohol and diabet when aspirated. klebsiella also a caus of nocosomi utis.
what colour coloni do klebsiella spp. yield on macconkey agar what colour coloni do klebsiella spp. yield on macconkey agar pink due to lactos fermentation.
what is the gram stain of klebsiella what is the gram stain of klebsiella negat
what is the gram stain of enterobact what is the gram stain of enterobact negat
what colour coloni do enterobact spp. yield on macconkey agar what colour coloni do enterobact spp. yield on macconkey agar pink due to lactos fermentation.
what is the gram stain of serratia what is the gram stain of serratia negat
what is the catalas express of serratia what is the catalas express of serratia posit
what colour pigment is associ with serratia marcescen what colour pigment is associ with serratia marcescen red
what colour coloni do serratia spp. yield on macconkey agar what colour coloni do serratia spp. yield on macconkey agar pink due to lactos fermentation.
__ is a speci of bacteria that caus uti. some strain produc a red pigment. __ is a speci of bacteria that caus uti. some strain produc a red pigment. serratia marcensen often nocosomi and drug resistant.
what kind of pneumonia doe mycoplasma pneumonia caus what kind of pneumonia doe mycoplasma pneumonia caus atyp pneumonia
how is mycoplasma pnuemonia transmit how is mycoplasma pnuemonia transmit respiratori droplet via cough
which bacteri infect is associ with cold autoimmun hemolyt anaemia (aiha) which bacteri infect is associ with cold autoimmun hemolyt anaemia (aiha) mycoplasma pneumonia
what are the common bacteri caus of guillain-barr syndrom what are the common bacteri caus of guillain-barr syndrom campylobact jejuni
which age group is more common affect by mycoplasm pneumonia ( mycoplasma pneumonia ) which age group is more common affect by mycoplasm pneumonia ( mycoplasma pneumonia ) 30 y/o there are frequent outbreak in militari recruit and prisons.
which special cultur media/agar is use to isol mycoplasma pneumonia which special cultur media/agar is use to isol mycoplasma pneumonia eaton agar (as mycoplasma requir cholesterol)
how doe mycoplasma pneumonia gram stain how doe mycoplasma pneumonia gram stain it doesn't; there is no cell wall
which class of immunoglobulin is found in high level as cold agglutinin in atyp pneumonia caus by mycoplasma pneumonia which class of immunoglobulin is found in high level as cold agglutinin in atyp pneumonia caus by mycoplasma pneumonia igm yes, i know this is a terribl word question. just rememb that igm titer are elev in m. pneumonia infection.
___ is a bacteri speci that contain sterol in their cell membrane. ___ is a bacteri speci that contain sterol in their cell membrane. mycoplasma spp.
what is the treatment for mycoplasma pneumonia infect what is the treatment for mycoplasma pneumonia infect macrolide, doxycycline, or fluoroquinolon penicillin are ineffect as there is no cell wall.
what is the etiolog of tinea versicolour what is the etiolog of tinea versicolour malassezia furfur; malassezia globosa; malassezia sympodiali occur in hot, humid weather.
__ is a cutan mycosi that involv damag to melanocyt and subsequ hyper- or hypopig patch due to acid produc from degrad of lipids; caus by __ __ is a cutan mycosi that involv damag to melanocyt and subsequ hyper- or hypopig patch due to acid produc from degrad of lipids; caus by __ tinea versicolour caus by malassezia furfur; malassezia globosa; malassezia sympodiali
__ is a fungus that common caus cutan mycosi and has a "spaghetti and meatball" appear . __ is a fungus that common caus cutan mycosi and has a "spaghetti and meatball" appear . malassezia furfur; malassezia globosa; malassezia sympodiali
what is the treatment for tinea versicolour topic miconazole; selenium sulfid (selsun)
what is the moa of tetracyclin inhibit of the 30s ribosom subunit
fanconi syndrom expir tetracyclin
what is the treatment for all disord caus by rickettsia spp . doxycyclin
___ is a renal complic of expir tetracyclin antibiot that present with glucose, amino acids, uric acid, phosphat and bicarbon in the urin instead of be reabsorbed. fanconi syndrom
___ is a cutan complic of demeclocyclin use. photosensit
__ is a tetracyclin antibiot that can be administ in renal diseas as it is excret in the bile. doxycyclin
what type of antibiot are the first choic drug for chlamydi infect tetracyclin
which is the teratogen effect of tetracyclin discolour teeth
__ are a mechan of resist to tetracyclines. an exampl is the tetk protein in staphylococcus . efflux pump
__ are a type of antibiot that are contraind in pregnanc and pre-pubert children ( 8 y/o) due to the bone mal that can occur. tetracyclin
what is the primari clinic use of tetracyclin antibiot borrelia burgdorferi; mycoplasma pneumoniae; intracellular bug such as rickettsia and chlamydia also use to treat acn
___ is a protein synthesi inhibit antibiot that has limit use due to toxic but is still use wide in develop countri due to it low cost. chloramphenicol
__ is a complic of chloramphenicol use in prematur infant as they lack hepat udp-glucuronyl transferas . gray babi syndrome}
the lack of which enzym in prematur infant  in grey babi syndrom follow chloramphenicol use udp-glucuronyl transferas
__ are dose-depend hematolog complic of chloramphenicol use. anaemia (and aplast anaemia)
what is the hematolog toxic of chloramphenicol aplast anaemia; gray babi syndrom
which bacteri ribosom subunit is target by chloramphenicol 50s
what is the sever advers effect associ with metronidazol [...] what is the sever advers effect associ with metronidazol disulfiram-lik reaction
clostridium difficil treatment oral metronidazole; if refractory, oral vancomycin
what group of bacteria are affect by metronidazol anaerob
__ is a dna damag antibiot that caus disulfirm-lik reaction with alcohol use. metronidazol sever flushing, tachycardia, hypotension.
what is the moa of metronidazol at of free radic toxic metabolit in the cell that damag dna bactericid and antiprotozoal.
how are picornavirus transmit [...] how are picornavirus transmit fecal-oral; all are enterovirus except for rhinovirus
[...] is a virus that caus poliomyel that replic in the oropharynx and small intestin befor enter the cns via the bloodstream . poliovirus is a virus that caus poliomyel that replic in the oropharynx and small intestin befor enter the cns via the bloodstream .
how do csf glucos level chang in poliomyel [...] how do csf glucos level chang in poliomyel no chang
how is poliovirus transmit [...] how is poliovirus transmit fecal oral
how do csf wbc level chang in poliomyel [...] how do csf wbc level chang in poliomyel increas
what type of restrict lung diseas is associ with polio [...] what type of restrict lung diseas is associ with polio mechan (due to poor muscular effort)
the [...] horn of the spinal cord is common affect in poliomyelitis. the anterior horn of the spinal cord is common affect in poliomyelitis.
[...] is a virus that affect unimmun children that caus mening and can also lead to myalgia and paralysi . poliovirus is a virus that affect unimmun children that caus mening and can also lead to myalgia and paralysi .
which area of the spinal cord is target in poliomyel [...] which area of the spinal cord is target in poliomyel anterior horn of the spinal cord (i.e. lmns) henc polio present with lmn lesion signs.
rash on palm and sole - possibl sourc coxsacki a, secondari syphilis, rocki mountain spot fever
what is the most common/ import associ of: myocard (viral) coxsacki b
which virus are the most common caus of myocard [...] which virus are the most common caus of myocard coxsacki a and b
which virus can caus secondari dilat cardiomyopathi via myocard [...] which virus can caus secondari dilat cardiomyopathi via myocard coxsacki a or b
how is coxsackievirus transmit [...] how is coxsackievirus transmit fecal-or transmiss
which viral infect is most common associ with subacut granulomat de quervian thyroid [...] which viral infect is most common associ with subacut granulomat de quervian thyroid coxsackievirus
what viral myocard can caus dilat cardiomyopathi [...] what viral myocard can caus dilat cardiomyopathi coxsacki b virus myocard
[...] is a picornavirus that caus asept meningitis, herpangina, hand-foot-mouth disease, myocard and pericarditis. coxsackievirus is a picornavirus that caus asept meningitis, herpangina, hand-foot-mouth disease, myocard and pericarditis.
what is the etiolog of hand-foot-mouth diseas [...] what is the etiolog of hand-foot-mouth diseas coxsackievirus type a
[...] is a viral disord caus by coxsackievirus type a that present with a vesicular rash on the palm and sole and vesicles/ulc on the oral mucosa . hand-foot-mouth diseas is a viral disord caus by coxsackievirus type a that present with a vesicular rash on the palm and sole and vesicles/ulc on the oral mucosa .
[...] is a picornavirus that caus the "common cold". rhinovirus is a picornavirus that caus the "common cold".
what is the onli picornavirus that doe not infect the gi tract [...] what is the onli picornavirus that doe not infect the gi tract rhinovirus this is becaus it is acid-labil and destroy in the stomach.
[...] is a picornavirus that is acid labil and henc is destroy by stomach acid and doesn't caus gi infection. rhinovirus is a picornavirus that is acid labil and henc is destroy by stomach acid and doesn't caus gi infection.
[...] is defin as inflamm of the liver parenchyma.  
  hepat is defin as inflamm of the liver parenchyma.
  
which 2 hepat virus do not yield carrier status [...] which 2 hepat virus do not yield carrier status a and e
which hepat virus is associ with asymptomat , acut hepat [...] which hepat virus is associ with asymptomat , acut hepat hav
[...] is a picornavirus that caus acut viral hepatitis. hav is a picornavirus that caus acut viral hepatitis.
which 2 hepat virus are transmit fecal-or [...] which 2 hepat virus are transmit fecal-or hav; hev "the vowel hit your bowels." they are nake virus and do not reli on an envelope, henc they are not destroy by the gut.
which 2 hepat virus do not increas the risk for hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) [...] which 2 hepat virus do not increas the risk for hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) hav; hev
what type of nucleic acid is found in calicivirus [...] what type of nucleic acid is found in calicivirus posit ssrna
[...] is a calicivirus that caus viral gastroenteritis. norovirus is a calicivirus that caus viral gastroenteritis.
what two group of rna virus have long polyprotein product that are cleav by viral proteas [...] what two group of rna virus have long polyprotein product that are cleav by viral proteas picorna and toga
glucos level in asept meningitis: [...] glucos level in asept meningitis: normal
protein level in asept meningitis: [...] protein level in asept meningitis: high
three enterovirus that caus asept meningitis: [...] three enterovirus that caus asept meningitis: echo, cox, polio
csf show no [...] or [...] in lumbar punctur of patient with asept meningitis. csf show no organ or glucos in lumbar punctur of patient with asept meningitis.
where specif doe the polio virus replic [...] where specif doe the polio virus replic lymphoid tissu such as tonsil and peyer patch
polio destroy the cell of the [...] . polio destroy the cell of the anterior horn of the lmn cell bodi .
what type of paralysi if found in polio virus [...] what type of paralysi if found in polio virus asymmetr paralysi vs. wednig-hoffman, which is symmetr paralysi and destruct of anterior horn of lmn cell
what is the common caus of death with poliovirus [...] what is the common caus of death with poliovirus respiratori insuffici make sens if you'r lose motor function
what is the name of the kill vaccin use for polio [...] what is the name of the kill vaccin use for polio salk vaccin
salk vaccin is what type of vaccin [...] salk vaccin is what type of vaccin kill
salk vaccin  what type of antibodi [...] salk vaccin  what type of antibodi onli igg kill vaccin onli induc humor immun
sabin polio vaccin is a live virus that induc humor and cellular immun and has an [...] response. sabin polio vaccin is a live virus that induc humor and cellular immun and has an iga and igg response. compar to salk virus, which is onli igg respons
all of the picorna virus are acid stabl except for: [...] all of the picorna virus are acid stabl except for: rhinovirus
which picorna virus caus the common cold [...] which picorna virus caus the common cold rhinovirus
explain whi rhinovirus, unlik the other picorna viruses, doe not undergo fecal-or transmiss [...] explain whi rhinovirus, unlik the other picorna viruses, doe not undergo fecal-or transmiss becaus it is acid labil thus, acid of the stomach will neutral it
what host-cel receptor doe rhinovirus attach to in the urt [...] what host-cel receptor doe rhinovirus attach to in the urt icam-1
what virus  to icam-1 in the urt [...] what virus  to icam-1 in the urt rhinovirus
whi is no vaccin avail for the rhinovirus [...] whi is no vaccin avail for the rhinovirus multipl serotyp
all of the picorna virus are acid stabl except for: [...] all of the picorna virus are acid stabl except for: rhinovirus
which picorna virus caus the common cold [...] which picorna virus caus the common cold rhinovirus
explain whi rhinovirus, unlik the other picorna viruses, doe not undergo fecal-or transmiss [...] explain whi rhinovirus, unlik the other picorna viruses, doe not undergo fecal-or transmiss becaus it is acid labil thus, acid of the stomach will neutral it
what host-cel receptor doe rhinovirus attach to in the urt [...] what host-cel receptor doe rhinovirus attach to in the urt icam-1
what virus  to icam-1 in the urt [...] what virus  to icam-1 in the urt rhinovirus
whi is no vaccin avail for the rhinovirus [...] whi is no vaccin avail for the rhinovirus multipl serotyp
transmiss of rhinovirus [...] transmiss of rhinovirus fomites, respiratori droplet
what is the rout of transmiss of hep a in develop countri [...] what is the rout of transmiss of hep a in develop countri contamin water
what is the rout of transmiss of hep a in develop countri [...] what is the rout of transmiss of hep a in develop countri uncook shellfish
what is the prognosi of hep a infect [...] what is the prognosi of hep a infect good. it is self-limit and there is no carrier/chron state
what is differ in adult and infants/children with hep a [...] what is differ in adult and infants/children with hep a children will not have jaundic
which rna virus caus infect that will ultim caus an avers to smoke [...] which rna virus caus infect that will ultim caus an avers to smoke hepat a
what is the best test to detect acut hepat a [...] what is the best test to detect acut hepat a anti-hav igm anti-hav igg indic prior hav infect and/or prior vaccination; protect against reinfect
can a pt. with igg ant-hav antibodi be re-infect [...] can a pt. with igg ant-hav antibodi be re-infect no, the igg indic prior infect or vaccin and is protect against re-infect
who are at risk of develop norovirus (norwalk virus) [...] who are at risk of develop norovirus (norwalk virus) peopl in close quarters, i.e. cruis ships, daycar , and consumpt of shellfish
what do rotovirus, adenovirus, and norovirus have in common [...] what do rotovirus, adenovirus, and norovirus have in common they all caus wateri diarrhea
main clinic complic of norovirus [...] main clinic complic of norovirus explosive, wateri diarrhea wateri diarrhea also caus by rotavirus, norovirus, adenovirus
diarrhea on a cruis ship [...] diarrhea on a cruis ship norwalk virus
yellow fever and dengu are both transmit by what mosquito [...] yellow fever and dengu are both transmit by what mosquito aed egyptei
what is the reservoir for the west nile virus [...] what is the reservoir for the west nile virus bird
which flavivirus can caus thrombocytopenia and hemorrhag fever [...] which flavivirus can caus thrombocytopenia and hemorrhag fever dengu
what is the renal complic of dengu fever [...] what is the renal complic of dengu fever renal failur
flavivirus that present with jaundice, backache, and black vomitus/bloodi stool [...] flavivirus that present with jaundice, backache, and black vomitus/bloodi stool yellow fever
liver involv with yellow fever will caus [...] , while massiv gi hemorrhag can caus [...] . liver involv with yellow fever will caus jaundic , while massiv gi hemorrhag can caus black vomitus and bloodi stool .
west nile virus can caus what neurolog complic [...] west nile virus can caus what neurolog complic seizures, encephalitis, mening can also lead to flaccid paralysis, and can eventuali lead to seizur and coma
what flavivirus can caus meningoenceph [...] what flavivirus can caus meningoenceph west nile virus
what flavivirus can you see councilman bodi on liver biopsi [...] what flavivirus can you see councilman bodi on liver biopsi yellow fever also seen in hep a
what type of vaccin doe yellow fever have [...] what type of vaccin doe yellow fever have live-attenu
what is the other name of dengu virus [...] what is the other name of dengu virus break-bon fever bc of severe, pain backach , muscle, and joint pain, and sever headach
what flavivirus is transmit through blood products, iv drug user [...] what flavivirus is transmit through blood products, iv drug user hepat c
virus that caus hand, foot, and mouth diseas [...] virus that caus hand, foot, and mouth diseas cox a cars: cox a, rickettsia (rmsf), syphili all caus rash on hand and feet
three bug that caus rash on the hand and feet: [...] three bug that caus rash on the hand and feet: cars- cox a, rickettsia, syphili
#1 caus of viral meningitis: [...] #1 caus of viral meningitis: cox a
cardiac complic of cox b: [...] cardiac complic of cox b: dilat cardiomyopathy, myocard
dilat cardiomyopathi and myocard are complic of infect with what rna virus [...] dilat cardiomyopathi and myocard are complic of infect with what rna virus cox b
pulmonari complic of cox b: [...] pulmonari complic of cox b: pleurodynia (bornholm disease/devil grip) unilateral, sharp pain in the chest, difficulti breath
infect with cox is common in what time of the year [...] infect with cox is common in what time of the year summer month
what cell are respons for kill the hepatocyt in hep c, which can ultim lead to chronic irrit and cirrhosis/hepatocellular carcinoma [...] what cell are respons for kill the hepatocyt in hep c, which can ultim lead to chronic irrit and cirrhosis/hepatocellular carcinoma lymphocyt infiltr the portal tract, kill the hepatocyt lymphoid aggreg can be seen on liver biopsi
acut infect with hep c is character by a larg rise and fall (~6 mo.) in [...] . acut infect with hep c is character by a larg rise and fall (~6 mo.) in alt .
which hepat infect is most like to becom chronic [...] which hepat infect is most like to becom chronic hep c
complic of chronic hep c [...] complic of chronic hep c cirrhosis, hepatocellular carcinoma
what lead to antigen variabl in hepat c [...] what lead to antigen variabl in hepat c lack of proofread viral rna polymeras lack 3' -- 5' proofread exonucleas 
antigen variabl in hepat see is due to lack of what protein [...] antigen variabl in hepat see is due to lack of what protein rna polymeras lack 3' -- 5' proofread exonucleas
whi doesn't hepat c have a vaccin [...] whi doesn't hepat c have a vaccin antigen variabl of the envelop d/t lack of 3' -- 5' exonucleas same tent seen in rhinovirus
cryoglobulin are seen with infect with what rna virus [...] cryoglobulin are seen with infect with what rna virus hepat c
[...] are serum protein (igm) that precipit in colder temperatures. seen in hcv. cryoglobulin are serum protein (igm) that precipit in colder temperatures. seen in hcv.
how is hcv transmit [...] how is hcv transmit parenter the hepat worm: a-b-c-d- the end have fecal-or transmiss (a = mouth; e = anus). everyth els in between (bcd) is transmit parenterally.
[...] is an interferon use to treat chronic hepat b and c . ifn-alpha is an interferon use to treat chronic hepat b and c .
[...] is a hepat virus that increas the risk of hepatocellular carcinoma by caus chronic inflammation. hcv is a hepat virus that increas the risk of hepatocellular carcinoma by caus chronic inflammation.
[...] is a flavivirus that caus hepatitis. hcv is a flavivirus that caus hepatitis.
how is hav transmit [...] how is hav transmit fecal-or the hepat worm: a-b-c-d- the end have fecal-or transmiss (a = mouth; e = anus). everyth els in between (bcd) is transmit parenterally.
which hepat is most common associ with chronic hepat and subsequ cirrhosi or carcinoma [...] which hepat is most common associ with chronic hepat and subsequ cirrhosi or carcinoma hcv
[...] is a serious torch infect that present with a "blueberri muffin" appear that is indic of extramedullari hematopoeisis. congenit rubella is a serious torch infect that present with a "blueberri muffin" appear that is indic of extramedullari hematopoeisis.
[...] is a cutan featur of congenit rubella that is indic of extramedullari hematopoiesis. "blueberri muffin" appear is a cutan featur of congenit rubella that is indic of extramedullari hematopoiesis.
[...] is a torch infect that present with a classic triad of patent ductus arteriosus, cataract and deaf . rubella is a torch infect that present with a classic triad of patent ductus arteriosus, cataract and deaf . there may be pulmonari arteri hypoplasia instead of pda. there may be a "blueberri muffin" rash as well.
[...] is a virus that affect unimmun children and present with a rash that begin at the head and move down with postauricular lymphadenopathi . rubella virus is a virus that affect unimmun children and present with a rash that begin at the head and move down with postauricular lymphadenopathi .
what congenit infect is a patent ductus arteriosus associ with [...] what congenit infect is a patent ductus arteriosus associ with congenit rubella
which 2 congenit defect are a key featur of congenit rubella syndrom [...] which 2 congenit defect are a key featur of congenit rubella syndrom cataract &amp; cardiac defect
which congenit infect is associ with cardiac septal defect [...] which congenit infect is associ with cardiac septal defect congenit rubella
which congenit infect is associ with patent ductus arteriosus (pda) [...] which congenit infect is associ with patent ductus arteriosus (pda) congenit rubella
which congenit infect is associ with pulmonari arteri stenosi [...] which congenit infect is associ with pulmonari arteri stenosi congenit rubella
[...] is an infecti disord caus by a togavirus that present with fever, postauricular (and other) lymphadenopathy, arthralgia and a fine rash . rubella is an infecti disord caus by a togavirus that present with fever, postauricular (and other) lymphadenopathy, arthralgia and a fine rash .
[...] is a cutan featur of rubella that involv fine macul that start on the face and spread centrifug to involv the trunk and extremities. fine (rubella) rash is a cutan featur of rubella that involv fine macul that start on the face and spread centrifug to involv the trunk and extremities.
how is rubella transmit [...] how is rubella transmit respiratori droplet
what cardiovascular defect are associ with congenit rubella (torches) [...] what cardiovascular defect are associ with congenit rubella (torches) pda or pulmonari arteri hypoplasia
which torch infect is associ with a "blueberri muffin" rash [...] which torch infect is associ with a "blueberri muffin" rash rubella; cmv
[...] and cmv are 2 torch infect that are associ with a "blueberri muffin " rash. rubella and cmv are 2 torch infect that are associ with a "blueberri muffin " rash.
rubella and [...] are 2 torch infect that are associ with a "blueberri muffin " rash. rubella and cmv are 2 torch infect that are associ with a "blueberri muffin " rash.
[...] is a viral infect that present with a postaur lymphadenopathi and a fine truncal rash that initi begin as a rash on the head which move down. rubella is a viral infect that present with a postaur lymphadenopathi and a fine truncal rash that initi begin as a rash on the head which move down.
three type of toga arbovirus: [...] three type of toga arbovirus: wee, eee, vee
what virus produc this enceph shown in the pictur [...] what virus produc this enceph shown in the pictur eastern/western/venezuelan equin encaphl
what type of lymphadenopathi is seen in childhood rubella [...] what type of lymphadenopathi is seen in childhood rubella postauricular
postauricular lymphadenopathi is seen in what childhood exanthem [...] postauricular lymphadenopathi is seen in what childhood exanthem rubella
what are the characterist of the rash seen in rubella [...] what are the characterist of the rash seen in rubella start at face, move downward, last 3 day measl also start at the face and move down, but is preced by cough, coryza, conjunctivitis, coplik (koplik; blue-white) spot
triad of congenit rubella: [...] triad of congenit rubella: congenit cataracts, sensory-neur deafness, pda also jaundice, blueberri muffin rash
what type of vaccin is mmr [...] what type of vaccin is mmr live-vaccin
mmr and vzv (chickenpox) vaccin can be given to patient with cd4 count greater than [...] . mmr and vzv (chickenpox) vaccin can be given to patient with cd4 count greater than 200 .
what are the two live vaccin that can be given to patient with cd4 count 200 [...] what are the two live vaccin that can be given to patient with cd4 count 200 mmr and vzv
ddx for rubella and measl childhood exanthems: rubella rash: [...] measles: [...] ddx for rubella and measl childhood exanthems: rubella rash: begin at head and move down with postauricular lymphadenopathi measles: begin at head and move down; preced by cough, coryza, conjunctivitis, and koplik spot
how are arbovirus transmit [...] how are arbovirus transmit arthropod (mosquitoes; ticks)
what virus caus sar or mer [...] what virus caus sar or mer coronavirus
[...] is caus by coronavirus and can lead to acut respriatori distress syndrom (ards). sars/mer is caus by coronavirus and can lead to acut respriatori distress syndrom (ards).
what type of nucleic acid is found in coronavirus [...] what type of nucleic acid is found in coronavirus posit ssrna
onli rna virus with a diploid genome: [...] onli rna virus with a diploid genome: retrovirus
gag encod what what retrovirus protein(s) [...] gag encod what what retrovirus protein(s) p24
p24 protein is encod for by what retrovirus gene [...] p24 protein is encod for by what retrovirus gene gag
what hiv envelop protein are encod for by env [...] what hiv envelop protein are encod for by env gp41 and gp120
what is the function of gp41 [...] what is the function of gp41 fusion and entri of hiv into host cd4 t-cell
what is the function of gp120 [...] what is the function of gp120 hiv attach to host cd4+ t-cell
gp41 and gp120 are code for by what hiv gene [...] gp41 and gp120 are code for by what hiv gene env
pol (hiv gene) code for what 3 protein [...] pol (hiv gene) code for what 3 protein revers transcriptase, aspart protease, integras
gp120 hiv receptor  what two receptor on host cell [...] gp120 hiv receptor  what two receptor on host cell cd4 and ccr5/cxcr4
ccr5 and cxcr4 are two co-receptor that allow  of what virus to the target host cell [...] ccr5 and cxcr4 are two co-receptor that allow  of what virus to the target host cell hiv
what host receptor allow hiv entri into t-cell [...] what host receptor allow hiv entri into t-cell cd4 and ccr5/cxcr4
what lymphoma is associ with aid [...] what lymphoma is associ with aid diffus larg b-cell lymphoma
ccr5 inhibitor for hiv: [...] ccr5 inhibitor for hiv: maraviroc
screen for hiv: [...] screen for hiv: elisa
confirmatori test for hiv: [...] confirmatori test for hiv: western blot
what is the best anti-retrovir hiv drug for pregancy/post-partum [...] what is the best anti-retrovir hiv drug for pregancy/post-partum zidovudin
what type of nucleic acid is found in retrovirus [...] what type of nucleic acid is found in retrovirus posit ssrna
what is the moa of the entri inhibitor antiretrovir maraviroc [...] what is the moa of the entri inhibitor antiretrovir maraviroc ccr5 antagonism;  infect by ccr5 tropic hiv
what type of antiretrovir is zidovudin (zdv) (azidothymidine; azt) [...] what type of antiretrovir is zidovudin (zdv) (azidothymidine; azt) nrti
what is the moa of proteas inhibitor antiretrovir [...] what is the moa of proteas inhibitor antiretrovir competit inhibit of aspartyl protease, therebi prevent proteolyt cleavag of gag and pol precursor protein
which viral protein in hiv function as the capsid protein [...] which viral protein in hiv function as the capsid protein p24
which diagnost test is use to determin the prognosi of hiv infect [...] which diagnost test is use to determin the prognosi of hiv infect hiv pcr/viral load test; determin the amount of viral rna in the plasma
[...] is a laboratori techniqu use to detect the presenc of either a specif antigen (direct) or specif antibodi (indirect) in a patient blood. enzyme-link immunosorb assay (elisa) is a laboratori techniqu use to detect the presenc of either a specif antigen (direct) or specif antibodi (indirect) in a patient blood. use wide to detect specif antibodi (esp. anti-hiv). specif and sensit both approach 100%, but fals  still occur.
where doe hiv replic dure the latent phase of an untreat infect [...] where doe hiv replic dure the latent phase of an untreat infect lymph node
which envelop protein from hiv function to mediat fusion and entri [...] which envelop protein from hiv function to mediat fusion and entri gp41; the transmembran glycoprotein
which viral gene in hiv code for the p24 capsid protein [...] which viral gene in hiv code for the p24 capsid protein gag
[...] is a blot procedur that is use to identifi protein by electrophoresi and label of protein with antibodies. western blot is a blot procedur that is use to identifi protein by electrophoresi and label of protein with antibodies. use to confirm hiv after a posit elisa.
to which co-receptor doe hiv  to enter macrophag [...] to which co-receptor doe hiv  to enter macrophag ccr5 alongsid cd4. homozyg ccr5 mutat = immunity. heterozyg ccr5 mutat = slower diseas course.
which viral protein in hiv function as the matrix protein [...] which viral protein in hiv function as the matrix protein p17
which viral gene in hiv code for the surfac glycoprotein gp120 and gp41 [...] which viral gene in hiv code for the surfac glycoprotein gp120 and gp41 env the protein code for gp160 which is cleav into gp120 and gp41.
which envelop protein on hiv function to allow attach to host cd4+ t cell [...] which envelop protein on hiv function to allow attach to host cd4+ t cell gp120; the dock glycoprotein
which diagnost test is use to monitor the effect of drug therapi in hiv infect [...] which diagnost test is use to monitor the effect of drug therapi in hiv infect hiv pcr/viral load test; determin the amount of viral rna in the plasma
which viral gene in hiv code for it integras [...] which viral gene in hiv code for it integras pol
which diagnost test is use as a presumptive, rule-out test for hiv infect [...] which diagnost test is use as a presumptive, rule-out test for hiv infect elisa sensitive; high false-posit rate; low threshold.
first aid microbiology: time cours of hiv infect what are the stage of [...] infect flu like (acute) feel fine (latent) fall count final crisi first aid microbiology: time cours of hiv infect what are the stage of untreat hiv infect flu like (acute) feel fine (latent) fall count final crisi
first aid microbiology: time cours of hiv infect what are the stage of untreat hiv infect [...] first aid microbiology: time cours of hiv infect what are the stage of untreat hiv infect flu like (acute) feel fine (latent) fall count final crisi
first aid microbiology: time cours of hiv infect how doe the number of anti-envelop bodi (gp120) chang dure hiv infect [...] . first aid microbiology: time cours of hiv infect how doe the number of anti-envelop bodi (gp120) chang dure hiv infect see pictur .
to which co-receptor doe hiv  to in late infect to enter t cell [...] to which co-receptor doe hiv  to in late infect to enter t cell cxcr4 alongsid cd4.
first aid microbiology: time cours of hiv infect how doe the number of cd8+ t cell chang dure hiv infect [...] . first aid microbiology: time cours of hiv infect how doe the number of cd8+ t cell chang dure hiv infect see pictur .
first aid microbiology: time cours of hiv infect dure the [...] of hiv infection, the virus replic in lymph node first aid microbiology: time cours of hiv infect dure the clinic latenc phase of hiv infection, the virus replic in lymph node
first aid microbiology: time cours of hiv infect dure the clinic latenc phase of hiv infection, [what happen ] first aid microbiology: time cours of hiv infect dure the clinic latenc phase of hiv infection, the virus replic in lymph node
first aid microbiology: time cours of hiv infect how doe the amount of hiv rna chang dure hiv infect [...] . first aid microbiology: time cours of hiv infect how doe the amount of hiv rna chang dure hiv infect see pictur .
which diagnost test is use to confirm a posit elisa test for hiv infect (i.e. a rule-in test ) [...] which diagnost test is use to confirm a posit elisa test for hiv infect (i.e. a rule-in test ) western blot assay specific; high-fals negat rate; high threshold
first aid microbiology: time cours of hiv infect how doe the number of cd4+ t cell chang dure hiv infect [...] . first aid microbiology: time cours of hiv infect how doe the number of cd4+ t cell chang dure hiv infect see pictur .
which viral gene in hiv code for it revers transcriptas [...] which viral gene in hiv code for it revers transcriptas pol remember, revers transcriptas is an rna-depend dna polymeras which synthes dsdna from rna. the  dsdna integr into the host genome.
to which 2 receptor doe hiv  to infect megakaryocyt in hiv-associ thrombocytopenia [...] to which 2 receptor doe hiv  to infect megakaryocyt in hiv-associ thrombocytopenia cd4 and cxcr4
first aid microbiology: receptor use by virus hiv mediat invas by  [...] (main receptor) with envelop gp120 ; also  ccr5 as a coreceptor on macrophag (dure earli infection), or  cxcr4 as a coreceptor on t cell (dure late infection) first aid microbiology: receptor use by virus hiv mediat invas by  cd4 (main receptor) with envelop gp120 ; also  ccr5 as a coreceptor on macrophag (dure earli infection), or  cxcr4 as a coreceptor on t cell (dure late infection) ccr5 and cxcr4 are both chemokin receptor
first aid microbiology: receptor use by virus hiv mediat invas by  cd4 (main receptor) with envelop gp120 ; also  [...] as a coreceptor on macrophag (dure [...] infection), or  [...] as a coreceptor on t cell (dure [...] infection) first aid microbiology: receptor use by virus hiv mediat invas by  cd4 (main receptor) with envelop gp120 ; also  ccr5 as a coreceptor on macrophag (dure earli infection), or  cxcr4 as a coreceptor on t cell (dure late infection) ccr5 and cxcr4 are both chemokin receptor
first aid microbiology: receptor use by virus hiv mediat invas by  cd4 (main receptor) with envelop gp120 ; also  ccr5 as a coreceptor on [...] (dure earli infection), or  cxcr4 as a coreceptor on [...] (dure late infection) first aid microbiology: receptor use by virus hiv mediat invas by  cd4 (main receptor) with envelop gp120 ; also  ccr5 as a coreceptor on macrophag (dure earli infection), or  cxcr4 as a coreceptor on t cell (dure late infection) ccr5 and cxcr4 are both chemokin receptor
first aid microbiology: receptor use by virus hiv mediat invas by  cd4 (main receptor) with envelop [...] ; also  ccr5 as a coreceptor on macrophag (dure earli infection), or  cxcr4 as a coreceptor on t cell (dure late infection) first aid microbiology: receptor use by virus hiv mediat invas by  cd4 (main receptor) with envelop gp120 ; also  ccr5 as a coreceptor on macrophag (dure earli infection), or  cxcr4 as a coreceptor on t cell (dure late infection) ccr5 and cxcr4 are both chemokin receptor
which type of t cell is the primari target of hiv [...] which type of t cell is the primari target of hiv cd4+ helper t cell
first aid microbiology: hiv diagnosi a diagnosi of hiv is made with [...] . this is sensit and has a high falso posit rate with low threshold. thus it is a rule out test. first aid microbiology: hiv diagnosi a diagnosi of hiv is made with elisa . this is sensit and has a high falso posit rate with low threshold. thus it is a rule out test.
first aid microbiology: hiv diagnosi a diagnosi of hiv is made with elisa. this is [...] and has a [...] with [...] . thus it is a rule out test. first aid microbiology: hiv diagnosi a diagnosi of hiv is made with elisa. this is sensit and has a high falso posit rate with low threshold . thus it is a rule out test.
first aid microbiology: hiv diagnosi a diagnosi of hiv is made with elisa. this is sensit and has a high falso posit rate with low threshold. thus it is a [...] . first aid microbiology: hiv diagnosi a diagnosi of hiv is made with elisa. this is sensit and has a high falso posit rate with low threshold. thus it is a rule out test .
first aid microbiology: hiv diagnosi [...] blot test look for antibodi to viral proteins. first aid microbiology: hiv diagnosi elisa/western blot test look for antibodi to viral proteins.
first aid microbiology: hiv diagnosi elisa/western blot test look for [...] . first aid microbiology: hiv diagnosi elisa/western blot test look for antibodi to viral protein .
after transcript from rna, viral hiv dna is transport into the nucleus for inclus into the host chromosom by what enzym [...] what gene encod for this enzym [...] after transcript from rna, viral hiv dna is transport into the nucleus for inclus into the host chromosom by what enzym viral integras what gene encod for this enzym pol
what envelop protein of hiv is respons for fusion and entri into the host cell [...] what envelop protein of hiv is respons for fusion and entri into the host cell gp41
follow fusion into the cell, viral hiv rna is revers transcrib into [...] follow fusion into the cell, viral hiv rna is revers transcrib into dsdna in the cytoplasm via revers transcriptas dna then travel to nucleus for integr into nucleas by viral integras
what is the moa of maraviroc (haart fusion inhibitor) [...] what is the moa of maraviroc (haart fusion inhibitor)  to ccr5 on t cells/monocytes, therebi inhibit interact with gp120 and viral entri
[...] is an haart drug that  to ccr5 on t cells/monocytes, therebi inhibit gp120 and and stop viral entry. maraviroc is an haart drug that  to ccr5 on t cells/monocytes, therebi inhibit gp120 and and stop viral entry.
what type of nucleic acid is found in orthomyxovirus [...] what type of nucleic acid is found in orthomyxovirus negat ssrna
[...] is an orthomyxovirus that caus the flu. influenza virus is an orthomyxovirus that caus the flu.
[...] is an envelop orthomyxovirus with an 8-segment negat ssrna genome. influenza virus is an envelop orthomyxovirus with an 8-segment negat ssrna genome.
[...] promot the releas of progeni virion releas (influenza, paramyxo, etc.) neuraminidas promot the releas of progeni virion releas (influenza, paramyxo, etc.)
influenza contain [...] that  sialic acid and promot viral entri and [...] , which promot progeni virion release. influenza contain hemagluttinin that  sialic acid and promot viral entri and neuraminidas , which promot progeni virion release. also seen in paramyxo
patient with [...] are at risk of secondari pneumonia. patient with influenza are at risk of secondari pneumonia.
what type of influenza vaccin is inject im [...] what type of influenza vaccin is inject im kill
which influenza vaccin is given intranas [...] which influenza vaccin is given intranas live vaccin
[...] is associ with viral infect (vzv and influenza b) that has been treat with aspirin. rey syndrom is associ with viral infect (vzv and influenza b) that has been treat with aspirin.
rey syndrom is associ with viral infect (vzv and influenza b) that has been treat with [...] . rey syndrom is associ with viral infect (vzv and influenza b) that has been treat with aspirin .
find in rey syndrome: [...] find in rey syndrome: fatti liver, hepatomegaly, enceph cow with fat liver
neurolog complic assoc. with campylobact and influenza: [...] neurolog complic assoc. with campylobact and influenza: guillain barr
symmetr ascend paralysi is associ in bacteri infect with [...] and viral infect involv influenza. symmetr ascend paralysi is associ in bacteri infect with campylobact and viral infect involv influenza.
symmetr ascend paralysi is associ in bacteri infect with campylobact and viral infect involv [...] . symmetr ascend paralysi is associ in bacteri infect with campylobact and viral infect involv influenza .
[...] are minor point mutat in ha or na gene in the influenza viral genome. antigen drift are minor point mutat in ha or na gene in the influenza viral genome.
antigen drift is associ with [...] outbreak of influenza. antigen drift is associ with epidem outbreak of influenza.
[...] is associ with epidem outbreak of influenza. antigen drift is associ with epidem outbreak of influenza.
[...] is the sudden reassort of influenza genom segment between species. antigen shift is the sudden reassort of influenza genom segment between species.
antigen shift of the influenza viral genom is associ with [...] outbreaks. antigen shift of the influenza viral genom is associ with pandem outbreaks.
[...] of the influenza viral genom is associ with pandem outbreaks. antigen shift of the influenza viral genom is associ with pandem outbreaks.
onli influenza a can undergo [...] . onli influenza a can undergo antigen shift .
[...] inhibit influenza neuraminidase, which decreas the releas of progeni virus. oseltamivir and zanamivir inhibit influenza neuraminidase, which decreas the releas of progeni virus.
oseltamivir and zanamivir inhibit influenza [...] , which decreas the releas of progeni virus. oseltamivir and zanamivir inhibit influenza neuraminidas , which decreas the releas of progeni virus.
the [...] of influenza creat ph for viral uncoat by creat pore for h+. the m2 protein of influenza creat ph for viral uncoat by creat pore for h+.
[...] is an influenza m2 protein inhibitor, thus prevent viral uncoating. amantadin is an influenza m2 protein inhibitor, thus prevent viral uncoating.
amantadin inhibit what influenza virul factor [...] amantadin inhibit what influenza virul factor m2 protein
optim time to receiv influenza vaccin [...] optim time to receiv influenza vaccin octob give the bodi time to mount respons for flu-season
[...] is an antigen from influenza virus that function to promot viral entry. hemagglutinin is an antigen from influenza virus that function to promot viral entry.
where in the cell do rna virus normal replic [...] where in the cell do rna virus normal replic cytoplasm, except for influenza virus and retrovirus
[...] is a viral enzyme/antigen from influenza virus that promot the releas of progeni virions. neuraminidas is a viral enzyme/antigen from influenza virus that promot the releas of progeni virions.
which 2 virus are associ rey syndrom due to aspirin administr [...] which 2 virus are associ rey syndrom due to aspirin administr vzv and influenza b
first aid microbiology: viral genet reassort has potenti to caus [...] . first aid microbiology: viral genet reassort has potenti to caus antigen shift .
[...] is a genet phenomenon that yield flu epidem . genetic/antigen drift is a genet phenomenon that yield flu epidem . involv minor chang base on random mutations. s udden genet s hift are more dead that gra d ual genet d rifts.
[...] is an anti-influenza agent with the same moa as amantadin but with fewer cns effects. rimantadin is an anti-influenza agent with the same moa as amantadin but with fewer cns effects.
what is the main clinic use of amantadin [...] what is the main clinic use of amantadin tx of inlfuenza a onli
what is the moa of amantadin in parkinson tx [...] what is the moa of amantadin in parkinson tx trigger releas of dopamin from intact nerv termin
[...] is a member of the paramyxo famili that contain all three virul factor (ha, na, f). parainfluenza is a member of the paramyxo famili that contain all three virul factor (ha, na, f).
[...] is a virul factor that  sialic acid and promot viral entry. hemagglutinin (ha) is a virul factor that  sialic acid and promot viral entry. parainfluenza, mumps, measl
"seal bark cough" is assoc. with what virus [...] "seal bark cough" is assoc. with what virus parainfluenza (croup)
croup is caus by [...] . croup is caus by parainfluenza . aka laryngotracheobronch
what is the main present symptom of croup [...] what is the main present symptom of croup inspiratori stridor
what is the main clinic find in infect with parainfluenza on an x-ray [...] what is the main clinic find in infect with parainfluenza on an x-ray pt. with croup will have "steepl sign" on chest x-ray (h. influenza will have "thumb sign" on later view d/t epiglottitis)
[...] croup "steepl sign" (parainfluenza)
all paramyxovirus are abl to  multinucl giant cell due to [...] . all paramyxovirus are abl to  multinucl giant cell due to fusion protein . f protein caus respiratori epitheli cell to fuse and  multinucl cell
#1 caus of pneumonia and bronchiol in infant 6 mo.: [...] #1 caus of pneumonia and bronchiol in infant 6 mo.: rsv
what is the most common viral caus of atyp pneumonia in infant 6 mo. [...] what is the most common viral caus of atyp pneumonia in infant 6 mo. rsv
what type of pneumonia is produc by rsv in infant 6 mo. [...] what type of pneumonia is produc by rsv in infant 6 mo. atyp pneumonia
[...] attach to alveolar epithelium via g-protein on the viral envelope. rsv attach to alveolar epithelium via g-protein on the viral envelope.
rsv attach to alveolar epithelium via [...] on the viral envelope. rsv attach to alveolar epithelium via g-protein on the viral envelope.
all of the paramyxoa (parainfluenza, measles, mumps, and rsv) all contain what virul factor [...] all of the paramyxoa (parainfluenza, measles, mumps, and rsv) all contain what virul factor fusion protein
[...] is a nucleosid analog that can be use to treat adult with rsv. ribavarin is a nucleosid analog that can be use to treat adult with rsv. main a hep c therapy; not use for children or preggo
[...] is an antibodi that target rsv f protein for prophylaxi in infants. palivizumab is an antibodi that target rsv f protein for prophylaxi in infants.
palivizumab is an antibodi that target rsv [...] for prophylaxi in infants. palivizumab is an antibodi that target rsv f protein for prophylaxi in infants.
rubeola = [...] (also called) rubeola = measl (also called)
measl (rubeola) virul factors: [...] measl (rubeola) virul factors: ha, f no na
4 c of measl (rubeola): [...] 4 c of measl (rubeola): cough, coryza, conjunctivitis, coplik (koplik) rash is preced by the 4 c
cough, coryza, conjunctivitis, koplik spot follow by maculopapular rash: [...] cough, coryza, conjunctivitis, koplik spot follow by maculopapular rash: measl
red spot with blue/whit center found on buccal mucosa in measles: [...] red spot with blue/whit center found on buccal mucosa in measles: koplik spot
direct of rash in measl (rubeola): [...] direct of rash in measl (rubeola): face → down
respiratori complic in measles: [...] respiratori complic in measles: pneumonia
sspe (subacut scleros panencephalitis) is seen 5-15 year after infect with [...] . sspe (subacut scleros panencephalitis) is seen 5-15 year after infect with measl (rubeola) .
what supplement can reduc morbid and mortal from measl in malnourish children [...] what supplement can reduc morbid and mortal from measl in malnourish children vitamin a
mump virul factors: [...] mump virul factors: all 3: ha, na, f mump and parainfluenza contain all 3
mump caus [...] , [...] , and [...] . mump caus mening , orchiti , and parot . mo m p s
orchiti is most common caus by [...] . orchiti is most common caus by mump .
mmr is a [...] vaccine. mmr is a live-attenu vaccine.
paramyxovirus (they are...): [...] paramyxovirus (they are...): parainfluenza, rsv, measles, mump
measl and mump belong to what famili of virus [...] measl and mump belong to what famili of virus paramyxo
first aid microbiology: viral vaccin [...] = measles, mumps, and rubella. it is a live attenu vaccin that can be given to hiv posit patient who do not show sign of immunodeficiency. first aid microbiology: viral vaccin mmr = measles, mumps, and rubella. it is a live attenu vaccin that can be given to hiv posit patient who do not show sign of immunodeficiency.
first aid microbiology: viral vaccin mmr = [...] . it is a live attenu vaccin that can be given to hiv posit patient who do not show sign of immunodeficiency. first aid microbiology: viral vaccin mmr = measles, mumps, and rubella . it is a live attenu vaccin that can be given to hiv posit patient who do not show sign of immunodeficiency.
first aid microbiology: viral vaccin mmr = measles, mumps, and rubella. it is a [...] that can be given to hiv posit patient who do not show sign of immunodeficiency. first aid microbiology: viral vaccin mmr = measles, mumps, and rubella. it is a live attenu vaccin that can be given to hiv posit patient who do not show sign of immunodeficiency.
first aid microbiology: viral vaccin mmr = measles, mumps, and rubella. it is a live attenu vaccin that can be given to hiv posit patient who [...] . first aid microbiology: viral vaccin mmr = measles, mumps, and rubella. it is a live attenu vaccin that can be given to hiv posit patient who do not show sign of immunodefici .
[...] is a common viral caus of orchiti in teenag males. mump virus is a common viral caus of orchiti in teenag males.
[...] is an infecti disord caus by paramyxovirus that present with parotitis, orchiti and asept mening . mump is an infecti disord caus by paramyxovirus that present with parotitis, orchiti and asept mening . "mump can make your parotid gland and test as big as pom -poms." p arotitis, o rchiti and asept m eningitis. the orchiti can caus sterility, especi after puberty.
[...] is a featur of mump that present with a swollen neck and parotid gland . parot is a featur of mump that present with a swollen neck and parotid gland .
first aid pharmacology: hematolog and oncolog all -tran retino acid , a vitamin a deriv can be use to treat the [...] virus first aid pharmacology: hematolog and oncolog all -tran retino acid , a vitamin a deriv can be use to treat the measl virus this is done via  the retino acid receptor-a ( rar-a ), which  a transcript complex that induc transcript of rig-1, therefor when measl rna is in the cell, rig-1 will recogn it and stimul express and product of antivir type i interferon ( ifn-a / ifn-b )
first aid pharmacology: hematolog and oncolog all -tran retino acid , a [...] can be use to treat the measl virus first aid pharmacology: hematolog and oncolog all -tran retino acid , a vitamin a deriv can be use to treat the measl virus this is done via  the retino acid receptor-a ( rar-a ), which  a transcript complex that induc transcript of rig-1, therefor when measl rna is in the cell, rig-1 will recogn it and stimul express and product of antivir type i interferon ( ifn-a / ifn-b )
first aid microbiology: bug affect unvaccin children in unvaccin children, measl virus produc a rash but it is preced by (4) thing 1. cough, 2. coryza, 3. conjunctivitis, 4. koplik spot on buccal mucosa
first aid microbiology: red rash of childhood rash from measl virus have a [...] rash that start at the head/neck and spread downward follow a prodrom fever first aid microbiology: red rash of childhood rash from measl virus have a confluent maculopapular rash that start at the head/neck and spread downward follow a prodrom fever - this is found in rubeola (measl ) - prodrom fever has cough, coryza, and conjunctivitis, follow by koplik spot (bright red spot w/ blue-whit center on buccal mucosa)
first aid microbiology: red rash of childhood rash from measl virus have a confluent maculopapular rash that start at the [...] and spread [direct ] follow a prodrom fever first aid microbiology: red rash of childhood rash from measl virus have a confluent maculopapular rash that start at the head/neck and spread downward follow a prodrom fever - this is found in rubeola (measl ) - prodrom fever has cough, coryza, and conjunctivitis, follow by koplik spot (bright red spot w/ blue-whit center on buccal mucosa)
first aid microbiology: red rash of childhood rash from [microb ] have a confluent maculopapular rash that start at the head/neck and spread downward follow a prodrom fever first aid microbiology: red rash of childhood rash from measl virus have a confluent maculopapular rash that start at the head/neck and spread downward follow a prodrom fever - this is found in rubeola (measl ) - prodrom fever has cough, coryza, and conjunctivitis, follow by koplik spot (bright red spot w/ blue-whit center on buccal mucosa)
what is the etiolog of subacut scleros panenceph (sspe) [...] what is the etiolog of subacut scleros panenceph (sspe) measl virus occur year later.
fever, cough, conjunctivitis, coryza, diffus rash measl (morbillivirus)
what is the caus of subacut scleros panenceph (sspe) [...] what is the caus of subacut scleros panenceph (sspe) persist measl virus infect
[...] is an infecti disord caus by a paramyxovirus that present with a characterist descend maculopapular rash . measl is an infecti disord caus by a paramyxovirus that present with a characterist descend maculopapular rash . discret erythemat rash that present late and includ the limb as it spread downward (vs. rubella which involv most the trunk and spread centrifug to the extremities)
first aid microbiology: bug affect unvaccin children in unvaccin children, measl vilus can present as a rash that __ a rash begin at the head and move down
small, irregular red spot on buccal/lingu mucosa with blue-whit center koplik spot (measl ; rubeola virus)
[...] is a progressive, debilit enceph that occur due to slow, progressive, persist measl virus infection. subacut scleros panenceph (sspe) is a progressive, debilit enceph that occur due to slow, progressive, persist measl virus infection.
which fat solubl vitamin is use as a treatment for measl [...] which fat solubl vitamin is use as a treatment for measl vitamin a
[...] are a mucos featur of measl that is describ as bright red spot with blue-whit center that preced the measl rash by 1-2 days. koplik spot are a mucos featur of measl that is describ as bright red spot with blue-whit center that preced the measl rash by 1-2 days.
[...] , coryza and conjuncitivit is a triad of symptom refer to as the "three c of measles." cough , coryza and conjuncitivit is a triad of symptom refer to as the "three c of measles."
cough, [...] and conjuncitivit is a triad of symptom refer to as the "three c of measles." cough, coryza and conjuncitivit is a triad of symptom refer to as the "three c of measles."
cough, coryza and [...] is a triad of symptom refer to as the "three c of measles." cough, coryza and conjuncitivit is a triad of symptom refer to as the "three c of measles."
[...] is a viral infect caus by a paramyxovirus that present with a rash that begin at the head and move down . measl (rubeola) is a viral infect caus by a paramyxovirus that present with a rash that begin at the head and move down . the rash is preced by cough, coryza, conjunct and koplik spot on the buccal mucosa.
[...] is a virus that affect unimmun children and present with a rash that is preced by cough, coryza, conjunct and koplik spot on the buccal mucosa. measl virus is a virus that affect unimmun children and present with a rash that is preced by cough, coryza, conjunct and koplik spot on the buccal mucosa. the rash that is seen start at the head and move down. coryza = rhinitis.
which viral infect are associ with acut dissemin postinfecti encephalomyel [...] which viral infect are associ with acut dissemin postinfecti encephalomyel measles; vzv
first aid microbiology: red rash of childhood rash from rubella virus begin with discret [...] that begin at the head and move centrifug ; spread to trunk and extrem as a fine desquam rash first aid microbiology: red rash of childhood rash from rubella virus begin with discret pink macul and papul that begin at the head and move centrifug ; spread to trunk and extrem as a fine desquam rash - this is found in rubella (german measl ) - also see a postauricular lymphadenopathi
first aid microbiology: red rash of childhood rash from rubella virus begin with discret pink macul and papul that begin at the [...] and move [direct ] ; spread to trunk and extrem as a fine desquam rash first aid microbiology: red rash of childhood rash from rubella virus begin with discret pink macul and papul that begin at the head and move centrifug ; spread to trunk and extrem as a fine desquam rash - this is found in rubella (german measl ) - also see a postauricular lymphadenopathi
first aid microbiology: red rash of childhood rash from [microb ] begin with discret pink macul and papul that begin at the head and move centrifug ; spread to trunk and extrem as a fine desquam rash first aid microbiology: red rash of childhood rash from rubella virus begin with discret pink macul and papul that begin at the head and move centrifug ; spread to trunk and extrem as a fine desquam rash - this is found in rubella (german measl ) - also see a postauricular lymphadenopathi
first aid microbiology: red rash of childhood rash from rubella virus begin with discret pink macul and papul that begin at the head and move centrifug ; spread to trunk and extrem as a [...] rash first aid microbiology: red rash of childhood rash from rubella virus begin with discret pink macul and papul that begin at the head and move centrifug ; spread to trunk and extrem as a fine desquam rash - this is found in rubella (german measl ) - also see a postauricular lymphadenopathi
which fat solubl vitamin is use to prevent sever exfoli dermat in malnourish children with measl [...] which fat solubl vitamin is use to prevent sever exfoli dermat in malnourish children with measl vitamin a
[...] is a fat solubl vitamin that is use to prevent sever exfoli dermat in malnourish children infect with measles. vitamin a is a fat solubl vitamin that is use to prevent sever exfoli dermat in malnourish children infect with measles.
what is the most common caus of croup [...] what is the most common caus of croup parainfluenza virus (hpiv)
[...] is a paramyxovirus that caus croup. parainfluenzavirus is a paramyxovirus that caus croup.
[...] is a viral respiratori infect caus by parainfluenzavirus that involv a seal-lik bark cough . croup is a viral respiratori infect caus by parainfluenzavirus that involv a seal-lik bark cough . common seen in infants.
bullet-shap virus: [...] bullet-shap virus: rabi
[...] are cytoplasm inclus found in the purkinj cell of the cerebellum and hippocamp neurons. negri bodi are cytoplasm inclus found in the purkinj cell of the cerebellum and hippocamp neurons.
negri bodi are cytoplasm inclus found in the [...] of the cerebellum and hippocamp neurons. negri bodi are cytoplasm inclus found in the purkinj cell of the cerebellum and hippocamp neurons.
eosinophil inclus seen in purkinj cells: [...] eosinophil inclus seen in purkinj cells: negri bodi (rabies)
rhabdovirus  to [...] on the motor end plate. rhabdovirus  to nicotin acetylcholin receptor on the motor end plate.
rabi travel in a [...] direct to the cns after  to ach receptors. rabi travel in a retrograd direct to the cns after  to ach receptors.
[...] travel in a retrograd direct to the cns after  to ach receptors. rabi travel in a retrograd direct to the cns after  to ach receptors.
rabi travel to the cns in a retrograd direct by the use of [...] . rabi travel to the cns in a retrograd direct by the use of dynein .
negri bodi seen with rabi infect can be found in what two area of the brain [...] negri bodi seen with rabi infect can be found in what two area of the brain hippocampus, cerebellum
sign of rabies: [...] sign of rabies: photophobia, hydrophobia, hypersaliv
carrier of rabies: [...] carrier of rabies: bite from bat, racoon, skunk, dog; aerosol from bat cave (rare)
what type of vaccin is rabi [...] what type of vaccin is rabi kill
what type nucleic acid is found in rhabdovirus [...] what type nucleic acid is found in rhabdovirus negat ssrna
[...] is a rhabdovirus that caus rabies. rabi virus is a rhabdovirus that caus rabies.
which rhabdovirus (negat ssrna) is shape like a bullet [...] which rhabdovirus (negat ssrna) is shape like a bullet rabi
[...] is a rhabdovirus that travel to and infect the cns by migrat in a retrograd fashion up nerv axons. rabi is a rhabdovirus that travel to and infect the cns by migrat in a retrograd fashion up nerv axons.
[...] is a cns disord caus by a rhabdovirus that present with agitation, photophobia and hydrophobia . rabi is a cns disord caus by a rhabdovirus that present with agitation, photophobia and hydrophobia . diseas progress : fever, malais -- agitation, photophobia, hydrophobia -- paralysis, coma -- death.
eosinophil inclus bodi in cytoplasm of hippocamp nerv cell - what are they call negri bodi of rabi (lyssavirus)
in which cell of the hippocampus are negri bodi found in rabi [...] in which cell of the hippocampus are negri bodi found in rabi pyramid
in which cell of the cerebellum are negri bodi found in rabi [...] in which cell of the cerebellum are negri bodi found in rabi purkinj
first aid microbiology: receptor use by virus rabi initi  to the [...] locat on muscl cells, then after replic travel retrograd via the pns to the cns, where it  to the neural cell adhes molecul (ncam) locat on brain cell first aid microbiology: receptor use by virus rabi initi  to the nicotin ach receptor locat on muscl cells, then after replic travel retrograd via the pns to the cns, where it  to the neural cell adhes molecul (ncam) locat on brain cell
first aid microbiology: receptor use by virus rabi initi  to the nicotin ach receptor locat on muscl cells, then after replic travel retrograd via the pns to the cns, where it  to the [...] locat on brain cell first aid microbiology: receptor use by virus rabi initi  to the nicotin ach receptor locat on muscl cells, then after replic travel retrograd via the pns to the cns, where it  to the neural cell adhes molecul (ncam) locat on brain cell
[...] are characterist cytoplasm inclus common found in purkinj cell of the cerebellum and in hippocamp neuron in a patient with rabies. negri bodi are characterist cytoplasm inclus common found in purkinj cell of the cerebellum and in hippocamp neuron in a patient with rabies.
[...] are eosinophil intracytoplasm inclus that are common found in pyramid cell of the hippocampus and purkinj cell of the cerebellum in rabi infect . negri bodi are eosinophil intracytoplasm inclus that are common found in pyramid cell of the hippocampus and purkinj cell of the cerebellum in rabi infect .
which anim bite are the most common caus of rabi [...] which anim bite are the most common caus of rabi bat, raccoon and skunk dog bite are actual not that common in the usa.
filovirus (ebola/marburg) to healthcar worker through [...] filovirus (ebola/marburg) to healthcar worker through bodili fluid
ebola and marburg both caus [...] , hypovolem shock, and end-organ failur within days. ebola and marburg both caus hemorrhag fever , hypovolem shock, and end-organ failur within days.
filovirus (ebola/marburg) can have possibl transmiss through [...] . filovirus (ebola/marburg) can have possibl transmiss through primat . that is one of the theori to how ebola began or was abl to be perpetu was through eat primat
what type nucleic acid is found in filovirus [...] what type nucleic acid is found in filovirus negat ssrna
[...] is a filovirus that caus marburg hemorrhag fever. marburg virus is a filovirus that caus marburg hemorrhag fever.
ebola/marburg hemorrhag fever are part of what famili [...] ebola/marburg hemorrhag fever are part of what famili filo
filoviruses: [...] filoviruses: ebola/marburg hemorrhag fever
kidney complic in hantavirus: [...] kidney complic in hantavirus: pre-ren azotemia pre-ren azotemia, pulmonari edema, hemorrhag fever -lose blood = de
hantavirus pulmonari complication: [...] hantavirus pulmonari complication: pulmonari edema, pneumonia pre-ren azotemia, pulmonari edema, pneumonia, hemorrhag fever
bunyavirus obtain it envelop from the [...] . bunyavirus obtain it envelop from the golgi .
hantavirus reservoir: [...] hantavirus reservoir: deer mous fun fact: outbreak of sin nombr virus (the four corner outbreak in the 90 where peopl start blame the nativ americans) in the sw was due to increas rainfal that year that lead to an increas in popul of deer mice and, thus, an increas in chanc transmiss with human (sweep attic and inhal all the rat shit).
arbovirus such as rift-valley fever and california fever are transmit via [...] . arbovirus such as rift-valley fever and california fever are transmit via aed mosquito .
what type nucleic acid is found in bunyavirus [...] what type nucleic acid is found in bunyavirus negat ssrna
[...] is a bunyavirus that caus hemorrhag fever and pneumonia. hantavirus is a bunyavirus that caus hemorrhag fever and pneumonia.
what is the etiolog of california enceph [...] what is the etiolog of california enceph bunyavirus which are also arboviruses.
what is the etiolog of sandfly/rift valley fever [...] what is the etiolog of sandfly/rift valley fever bunyavirus which are also arboviruses.
what is the etiolog of crimean-congo hemorrhag fever [...] what is the etiolog of crimean-congo hemorrhag fever bunyavirus which are also arbovirus .
[...] is ambisens in that it can encod both + and - rna. arenavirus is ambisens in that it can encod both + and - rna.
[...] is a segment virus that can caus lassa fever and lcmv. arenavirus is a segment virus that can caus lassa fever and lcmv.
what type nucleic acid is found in arenavirus [...] what type nucleic acid is found in arenavirus negat ssrna
[...] is an arenavirus that caus lymphocyt choriomeningitis. lymphocyt choriomening virus (lcmv) is an arenavirus that caus lymphocyt choriomeningitis.
first aid microbiology: lassa virus lassa virus is an [...] , spread by rodents. first aid microbiology: lassa virus lassa virus is an arenavirus , spread by rodents. common in undevelop africa
first aid microbiology: lassa virus lassa virus is an arenavirus, spread by [...] . first aid microbiology: lassa virus lassa virus is an arenavirus, spread by rodent . common in undevelop africa
first aid microbiology: zika zika is a [viral family] first aid microbiology: zika zika is a flavivirus has envelope, ssrna, icosahedr
first aid microbiology: zika zika virus is most common transmit by [...] first aid microbiology: zika zika virus is most common transmit by aed mosquito can also have sexual and vertic transmiss
first aid microbiology: zika zika virus is diagnos by [...] first aid microbiology: zika zika virus is diagnos by rt-pcr or serolog
first aid microbiology: zika if a pregnant woman transmit zika in utero, it can lead to [...] first aid microbiology: zika if a pregnant woman transmit zika in utero, it can lead to congenit microcephali or miscarriag
first aid microbiology: zika zika outbreak are more common in [...] climat first aid microbiology: zika zika outbreak are more common in tropic and subtrop climat
first aid microbiology: zika how do you treat zika virus [...] first aid microbiology: zika how do you treat zika virus support care, there is current no definit treatment
what is the onli dsrna virus [...] what is the onli dsrna virus reovirus
transmiss of rotavirus [...] transmiss of rotavirus fecal-or shit-stain water
rotavirus is a dsrna virus that produc [...] diarrhea. rotavirus is a dsrna virus that produc wateri diarrhea.
[...] is a dsrna virus that produc wateri diarrhea. rotavirus is a dsrna virus that produc wateri diarrhea.
what toxin in rotavirus produc secretori diarrhea [...] what toxin in rotavirus produc secretori diarrhea nsp4 toxin
nsp4 toxin is found in rotavirus and caus secretori diarrhea via increas [...] permeability. nsp4 toxin is found in rotavirus and caus secretori diarrhea via increas chlorid permeability.
[...] is found in rotavirus and caus secretori diarrhea via increas chlorid permeability. nsp4 toxin is found in rotavirus and caus secretori diarrhea via increas chlorid permeability.
rotavirus viral enterotoxin that produc secretori diarrhea via inc. cl- permeability: [...] rotavirus viral enterotoxin that produc secretori diarrhea via inc. cl- permeability: nsp4
how mani segment are in rotavirus [...] how mani segment are in rotavirus 11 rna segment boar = segment virus
#1 caus of sever diarrhea in children and infant [...] #1 caus of sever diarrhea in children and infant rotavirus
what age group(s) are most at risk of gastroenter from rotavirus [...] what age group(s) are most at risk of gastroenter from rotavirus infants, children
colorado tick virus is caus by [...] . colorado tick virus is caus by reovirus . family: coltivirus no rash assoc. with
ddx for colorado tick virus (reovirus) vs. rmsf (rickettsia): [...] ddx for colorado tick virus (reovirus) vs. rmsf (rickettsia): no rash assoc. with colorado tick virus
rotashield is a [...] oral vaccin use in protect against rotavirus. rotashield is a live-attenu oral vaccin use in protect against rotavirus.
main complic of rotashield (rotavirus live-attenu vaccine): [...] main complic of rotashield (rotavirus live-attenu vaccine): bowel intussuscept d/t stimul and enlarg of peyer patch
rotavirus is more common in what season [...] rotavirus is more common in what season winter
[...] is a caus of infantil gastroenter that produc villous destruct with atrophi that lead to ↓ absorpt of n+ and loss of k+. rotavirus is a caus of infantil gastroenter that produc villous destruct with atrophi that lead to ↓ absorpt of n+ and loss of k+.
conjunct often progress into [...] which common present with corneal ulceration, especi with hsv1. conjunct often progress into kerat which common present with corneal ulceration, especi with hsv1.
which herpesvirus is associ with cowdri type a inclus on a cell smear [...] which herpesvirus is associ with cowdri type a inclus on a cell smear hsv-1; hsv-2
what is the etiolog of herp genitali [...] what is the etiolog of herp genitali hsv-2
[...] is a herpesvirus that is latent in sacral ganglia . hsv-2 is a herpesvirus that is latent in sacral ganglia .
which herpesvirus is associ with neonat herp [...] which herpesvirus is associ with neonat herp hsv-2
how is hsv-2 transmit [...] how is hsv-2 transmit sexual contact; perinat
how are the torch infect common transmit [...] how are the torch infect common transmit transplacent in most case hsv-2 is common transmit dure delivery.
[...] is a torch infect that present with meningioenceph and herept (vesicular) lesion hsv-2 is a torch infect that present with meningioenceph and herept (vesicular) lesion
what is the etiolog of genit herp [...] what is the etiolog of genit herp hsv-2; less common hsv-1
[...] is a herpesvirus that caus tempor lobe encephalitis. hsv-1 is a herpesvirus that caus tempor lobe encephalitis. most common caus of sporad enceph in the usa.
which herpesvirus is the most common caus of sporad enceph in the usa [...] which herpesvirus is the most common caus of sporad enceph in the usa hsv-1
which herpesvirus is associ with gingivostomat [...] which herpesvirus is associ with gingivostomat hsv-1
which herpesvirus is associ with keratoconjunct [...] which herpesvirus is associ with keratoconjunct hsv-1
what is the etiolog of herp labiali [...] what is the etiolog of herp labiali hsv-1
which herpesvirus is associ with kluver-buci syndrom [...] which herpesvirus is associ with kluver-buci syndrom hsv-1
[...] is a herpesvirus that is latent in trigemin ganglia . hsv-1 is a herpesvirus that is latent in trigemin ganglia .
how is hsv-1 transmit [...] how is hsv-1 transmit respiratori droplets; saliva
hsv-1 lie latent in the [...] ganglion. hsv-1 lie latent in the trigemin ganglion.
herp labiali (cold sores) is caus by [...] herp labiali (cold sores) is caus by hsv-1 abov the waist
serpigin ulcer on the cornea seen on fluorescein slit lamp exam = [...] serpigin ulcer on the cornea seen on fluorescein slit lamp exam = keratoconjunct (hsv-1)
first infect with hsv-1 will present as [...] . first infect with hsv-1 will present as gingivostomat .
tempor lobe enceph is caus by [...] . tempor lobe enceph is caus by hsv-1 .
neurolog complic of hsv-1: [...] neurolog complic of hsv-1: tempor lobe enceph
herp labialis, keratoconjunctivitis, tempor lobe enceph = [...] herp labialis, keratoconjunctivitis, tempor lobe enceph = hsv-1
[...] is caus by hsv-1 &amp; 2 and is common in dentist and health care workers. herpet whitlow is caus by hsv-1 &amp; 2 and is common in dentist and health care workers.
[...] herpet whitlow caus by hsv-1 and 2 describ as a "dew-drop on a rose pedal" appear
hsv-2 lie latent in the [...] . hsv-2 lie latent in the sacral ganglia .
[...] assoc. with hsv-2 caus a pain inguin lymphadenopathy. herp genitali assoc. with hsv-2 caus a pain inguin lymphadenopathy.
neurolog complic of hsv-2: [...] neurolog complic of hsv-2: asept mening in adolesc and adult
intranuclear inclus bodi seen in hsv and vzv = [...] intranuclear inclus bodi seen in hsv and vzv = cowdri type a bodi
cowdri type a bodi are seen in [...] . cowdri type a bodi are seen in hsv and vzv .
test of choic for hsv: [...] test of choic for hsv: pcr
treatment to prevent breakout in hsv: [...] treatment to prevent breakout in hsv: acyclovir and valcyclovir violet ( v alcyclovir) trashcan (re cyclo )
acyclovir and valcyclovir are use to prevent breakout of [...] . acyclovir and valcyclovir are use to prevent breakout of hsv . also use to treat vzv; doe not effect latent  of hsv and vzv
two viral caus of conjunctivitis: [...] two viral caus of conjunctivitis: adenovirus and hsv-1 hsv-1 diagnos with fluorescein stain
how is hsv-1 re [...] how is hsv-1 re stress
which of the herp virus remain dormant in the sacral ganglia [...] which of the herp virus remain dormant in the sacral ganglia hsv-2
ebv is primarili transmit through [...] . ebv is primarili transmit through saliva .
ebv envelop glycoprotein  [...] to infect b-cell ebv envelop glycoprotein  cd21 to infect b-cell also call cr2, c3d complement receptor
ebv remain latent in [...] . ebv remain latent in b-cell .
infecti mononucleosi with posit monospot test: [...] infecti mononucleosi with posit monospot test: ebv tender lymphadenopathy, fever, pharyng and tonsillar exud
what are the complic of treat a patient with ebv mono with amoxicillin/ampicillin [...] what are the complic of treat a patient with ebv mono with amoxicillin/ampicillin patient with mono will develop a maculopapular rash if treat for s. pharyng with amoxicillin/ampicillin
what cancer is associ with asian patient with ebv [...] what cancer is associ with asian patient with ebv nasopharyng carcinoma
nasopharyng carcinoma is associ with asian patient with [...] . nasopharyng carcinoma is associ with asian patient with ebv .
what two lymphoma are associ with ebv infect [...] what two lymphoma are associ with ebv infect mix cellular hodgkin lymphoma, burkitt lymphoma owl = reed sternberg cell for hodgkin
[...] hodgkin lymphoma (rs cell that look like owl eyes) and endem or african burkitt lymphoma (larg jaw lesion and swelling)
non-cancer lesion that can aris as a complic of ebv [...] non-cancer lesion that can aris as a complic of ebv oral hairi leukoplakia in hiv patient
[...] (non-cancerous) oral hairi leukoplakia in hiv patient with ebv
what advic should be given to someon with ebv infecti mononucleosi [...] what advic should be given to someon with ebv infecti mononucleosi stay away from contact sport d/t increas risk of ruptur spleen splenomegali is due to t-cell prolifer
re cd8+ t-cell (downey or atyp cells) seen on blood smear [...] re cd8+ t-cell (downey or atyp cells) seen on blood smear ebv
unscrap white plaqu on later tongu assoc. with ebv: [...] unscrap white plaqu on later tongu assoc. with ebv: oral hairi leukoplakia non-cancer
starri sky appearance, larg jaw lesion and swell assoc. with ebv [...] starri sky appearance, larg jaw lesion and swell assoc. with ebv endem burkitt lymphoma remember, sporad  is most common seen in the abdomen (had a u-world question on this; pt. had mass around the intestines, high mitot index, etc.)
treatment against ebv (weak ity): [...] treatment against ebv (weak ity): acyclovir
which cell surfac receptor on b cell is the receptor for ebv [...] which cell surfac receptor on b cell is the receptor for ebv cd21 "you must be 21 to drink at the epstein-barr ."
[...] is a complic of ebv infect that present with fever, hepatosplenomegaly, pharyng and lymphadenopathy. mononucleosi is a complic of ebv infect that present with fever, hepatosplenomegaly, pharyng and lymphadenopathy. lymphadenopathi is especi seen at the posterior cervic nodes.
[...] is a herpesvirus that can give rise to atyp lymphocyt (downey cells) on a peripher blood smear . ebv is a herpesvirus that can give rise to atyp lymphocyt (downey cells) on a peripher blood smear . the atyp cell are not b cells. they are re cytotox t cell .
[...] is a lymphoma often associ with ebv in that can present as focal or multipl lesions, therebi differenti it from toxoplasmosis. primari b-cell cns lymphoma is a lymphoma often associ with ebv in that can present as focal or multipl lesions, therebi differenti it from toxoplasmosis.
which viral infect is associ with cold autoimmun hemolyt anaemia (aiha) [...] which viral infect is associ with cold autoimmun hemolyt anaemia (aiha) infecti mononucleosi (ebv)
[...] is a diseas caus by ebv that is also common refer to as " kiss diseas " as it is often seen in teen and young adults. mononucleosi is a diseas caus by ebv that is also common refer to as " kiss diseas " as it is often seen in teen and young adults.
where is ebv latent [...] where is ebv latent b cell ebv infect b cells.
which diagnost test is use to detect ebv infect [...] which diagnost test is use to detect ebv infect monospot test heterophil antibodi are detect by agglutin of sheep or hors rbcs. posit  = ebv infection.
the [...] is a diagnost test that detect the heterophil antibodi seen in ebv infect via agglutin of sheep or hors rbcs. the monospot test is a diagnost test that detect the heterophil antibodi seen in ebv infect via agglutin of sheep or hors rbcs.
which virus is associ with 50% of case of hodgkin lymphoma [...] which virus is associ with 50% of case of hodgkin lymphoma ebv
what is the most common etiolog of mononucleosi [...] what is the most common etiolog of mononucleosi ebv
how is ebv transmit [...] how is ebv transmit respiratori secretions; saliva
[...] is a dermatolog infect caus by ebv in hiv patient that common present on the later tongue. hairi leukoplakia is a dermatolog infect caus by ebv in hiv patient that common present on the later tongue.
which herpesvirus is associ with hodgkin lymphoma [...] which herpesvirus is associ with hodgkin lymphoma ebv
[...] is a precancer condit of the mouth caus by ebv in immunocompromis patient character by white, fluffy, hairi patch on the later border of the tongue. it cannot be scrape off . hairi leukoplakia is a precancer condit of the mouth caus by ebv in immunocompromis patient character by white, fluffy, hairi patch on the later border of the tongue. it cannot be scrape off .
which herpesvirus is associ with endem burkitt lymphoma [...] which herpesvirus is associ with endem burkitt lymphoma ebv
cmv remain latent in [...] cmv remain latent in mononuclear leukocyt lymphocytes, monocytes, macrophag
cd4 count in cmv infections: [...] cd4 count in cmv infections: 50
congenit cmv symptoms: [...] congenit cmv symptoms: thrombocytopenia (blueberri muffin rash), sensorineur hear loss, periventricular calcifications, ventriculomegali
#1 caus of mental retard from congenit viral infect and sensorineur hear loss = [...] #1 caus of mental retard from congenit viral infect and sensorineur hear loss = cmv
auditori complic of congenit cmv: [...] auditori complic of congenit cmv: sensorineur hear loss
neuroimag found in what congenit infect [...] neuroimag found in what congenit infect cmv periventricular calcif
periventricular calcif are found in what congenit syndrom [...] periventricular calcif are found in what congenit syndrom cmv
what percentag of cmv congenit infect are asymptomat [...] what percentag of cmv congenit infect are asymptomat 80-90%
organ transplant patient are at risk of [...] organ transplant patient are at risk of cmv pneumonia
virus assoc. with pneumonia in transplant patients: [...] virus assoc. with pneumonia in transplant patients: cmv
[...] hydrop fetali (cmv)
#1 caus of virus induc hear loss: [...] #1 caus of virus induc hear loss: cmv
cotton wool spot on fundoscopi of cmv patient: [...] cotton wool spot on fundoscopi of cmv patient: hiv retin
fundoscopi find in hiv patient with cmv: [...] fundoscopi find in hiv patient with cmv: cmv retin "pizza pie" appear
single, deep, linear ulcer found in the esophagus on endoscopy: [...] single, deep, linear ulcer found in the esophagus on endoscopy: cmv
negat monospot test: [...] negat monospot test: cmv mononucleosi "no mo-spots"
monospot test in cmv mononucleosis: [...] monospot test in cmv mononucleosis: negat " no mo spots"
treatment for cmv: [...] treatment for cmv: ganciclovir
[...] ganciclovir treatment for cmv
ganciclovir and foscarnet are treatment for what dna virus [...] ganciclovir and foscarnet are treatment for what dna virus cmv
foscarnet should be given to pt. with cmv when there is a [...] lead to resist to ganciclovir . foscarnet should be given to pt. with cmv when there is a ul97 kinas gene mutat lead to resist to ganciclovir .
cytomegalovirus treatment = ganciclovir
what is the most common caus of atyp pneumonia in post-transpl immunosuppress patient [...] what is the most common caus of atyp pneumonia in post-transpl immunosuppress patient cytomegalovirus (cmv)
what is the clinic use of ganciclovir [...] what is the clinic use of ganciclovir cytomegalovirus (cmv) infect also, long term prevent of kaposi sarcoma in aid patient
what kind of pneumonia doe cytomegalovirus caus [...] what kind of pneumonia doe cytomegalovirus caus atyp pneumonia
which herpesvirus is associ with characterist owl eye inclus in infect cell [...] which herpesvirus is associ with characterist owl eye inclus in infect cell cmv
which herpesvirus is associ with caus retin [...] which herpesvirus is associ with caus retin cmv "sight"-o-megalovirus
how is cmv transmit [...] how is cmv transmit sexual contact; organ transplant
[...] is a herpesvirus that is latent in mononuclear cells. cmv is a herpesvirus that is latent in mononuclear cells.
how is cmv transmit [...] how is cmv transmit congenitally; transfusion; sexual contact; saliva; urine; transplant
which herpesvirus is associ with infect an organ transplant recipi [...] which herpesvirus is associ with infect an organ transplant recipi cmv
which herpesvirus caus mononucleosi with a negat monospot test [...] which herpesvirus caus mononucleosi with a negat monospot test cmv
what cd4+ cell count is associ with cmv retin in hiv patient [...] what cd4+ cell count is associ with cmv retin in hiv patient 50 cells/mm 3
[...] is a gi complic that is often seen alongsid cmv retin in hiv patients. esophag is a gi complic that is often seen alongsid cmv retin in hiv patients.
[...] is a viral caus of esophag that involv owl eye inclusions. cmv is a viral caus of esophag that involv owl eye inclusions.
[...] is a torch infect that present with hear loss, seizures, petechi rash and a "blueberri muffin" rash. cmv is a torch infect that present with hear loss, seizures, petechi rash and a "blueberri muffin" rash.
what is the most common caus of viral esophag with ulcer [...] what is the most common caus of viral esophag with ulcer hsv and cmv
which herpesvirus is associ with esophag in the immunocompromis that present with linear ulcer [...] which herpesvirus is associ with esophag in the immunocompromis that present with linear ulcer cmv
[...] is a herpvesvirus that caus interstiti pneumonia in hiv patients. cmv is a herpvesvirus that caus interstiti pneumonia in hiv patients. associ with owl eye inclusions.
which cns symptom is a key featur of congenit cmv [...] which cns symptom is a key featur of congenit cmv intracrani (periventricular) calcif
[...] is a herpesvirus that caus retin in hiv patient that present with cotton-wool spot on fundoscopy. cmv is a herpesvirus that caus retin in hiv patient that present with cotton-wool spot on fundoscopy. may present with esophagitis.
torch infect of vzv [...] torch infect of vzv congenit varicella syndrome: limb hypoplasia, cutan dermatom scarring, blind
rash distribut in chickenpox: [...] rash distribut in chickenpox: differ stage lesion begin on trunk and spread to face and extrem
re  of vzv: [...] re  of vzv: herp zoster (shingles)
rash distribut of herp zoster: [...] rash distribut of herp zoster: dermatom distribut
pain rash that follow a dermatom distribution: [...] pain rash that follow a dermatom distribution: herp zoster (shingles)
complic of chicken pox in kid and adults: [...] complic of chicken pox in kid and adults: pneumonia, enceph
most common complic of shingl [...] most common complic of shingl post-herpet neuralgia
post-herpet neuralgia is a common complic of [...] . post-herpet neuralgia is a common complic of herp zoster .
pain along dermatom distribut after shingl rash subsides: [...] pain along dermatom distribut after shingl rash subsides: post-herpet neuralgia
complic if cn v 1 branch is involv in herp zoster: [...] complic if cn v 1 branch is involv in herp zoster: herp zoster opthalmicus forehead lesion and possibl vision loss
what cranial nerv is involv in herp zoster opthalmicus [...] what cranial nerv is involv in herp zoster opthalmicus cn v 1
diagnosi of herp zoster: [...] diagnosi of herp zoster: multinucl giant cell on tzanck smear, pcr of skin lesion hsv-1, hsv-2, vzv pcr of skin lesion is test of choic
mutlinucl giant cell on tzanck smear are found in what 3 virus [...] mutlinucl giant cell on tzanck smear are found in what 3 virus hsv-1, hsv-2, vzv
when can a live-attenu vzv vaccin be given to hiv patient [...] when can a live-attenu vzv vaccin be given to hiv patient when their cd4 count is 200
vaccin for vzv: [...] vaccin for vzv: live attenu
vzv remain dormant in [...] vzv remain dormant in drg
which of the herp virus remain dormant in the drg [...] which of the herp virus remain dormant in the drg vzv
congenit varicella syndrom = [...] congenit varicella syndrom = limb hypoplasia, cutan dermatom scarring, blind
transmiss of vzv: [...] transmiss of vzv: respiratori droplet
treatment for vzv: [...] treatment for vzv: acyclovir, valacyclovir
what is the etiolog of chickenpox [...] what is the etiolog of chickenpox vzv (varicella-zoster)
what is the etiolog of shingl [...] what is the etiolog of shingl vzv (varicella-zoster)
[...] is an infecti disord caus by vzv that present with a vesicular rash that begin on the trunk that spread to the face and extremities. chickenpox is an infecti disord caus by vzv that present with a vesicular rash that begin on the trunk that spread to the face and extremities.
hhv-6 is associ with which exanthem [...] hhv-6 is associ with which exanthem roseola this might be my least favorit draw
roseola is caus by [...] . roseola is caus by hhv-6 .
roseola is also call [...] . roseola is also call exanthem subitum .
roseola rash is character by the follow characteristics: [...] roseola rash is character by the follow characteristics: sever day of high fever follow by diffus macular rash fever general last 4 day (4 suns) follow by diffuse, laci bodi rash that spare the face
complic of children with roseola: [...] complic of children with roseola: febril seizur
what type of cell are infect with hhv-6 [...] what type of cell are infect with hhv-6 cd-4 cell
[...] hhv-6 infect cd-4 t-cell
what part of the bodi is spare in roseola (hhv-6 ) [...] what part of the bodi is spare in roseola (hhv-6 ) face other sourc say it doesn't spare the face, so just be care with this one i guess
what is a less common caus of roseola [...] what is a less common caus of roseola hhv-7 primarili hhv-6
what cell doe hhv-6 (roseola) infect [...] what cell doe hhv-6 (roseola) infect cd4 cell
[...] are a neurolog complic of roseola due to the high fever that can last for sever days. seizur are a neurolog complic of roseola due to the high fever that can last for sever days.
how is roseola (hhv-6) transmit [...] how is roseola (hhv-6) transmit saliva
[...] is an infecti disord caus by hhv-6 that present with high fever for sever day and a subsequ diffus macular rash . roseola is an infecti disord caus by hhv-6 that present with high fever for sever day and a subsequ diffus macular rash .
[...] is a viral disord caus by hhv-6 that present with a macular rash over the bodi that appear after sever day of high fever. roseola is a viral disord caus by hhv-6 that present with a macular rash over the bodi that appear after sever day of high fever. can present with febril seizur and usual affect infants.
who are the 3 at risk group of hhv-8 [...] who are the 3 at risk group of hhv-8 aids/immunosuppressed, elder russian men, endem area of africa
pathogenesi of kaposi sarcoma: [...] pathogenesi of kaposi sarcoma: prolif angiogenesi via disregul of vegf
what virus caus prolifer of the vasculatur via disregul of vegf [...] what virus caus prolifer of the vasculatur via disregul of vegf hhv-8 vascular give the lesion a violet color
violaci lesion d/t disregul of vegf found on the nose, extremities, mucous membranes, and hard palate: [...] violaci lesion d/t disregul of vegf found on the nose, extremities, mucous membranes, and hard palate: kaposi sarcoma
what is the most common locat of kaposi lesion [...] what is the most common locat of kaposi lesion hard palat
what is the ddx for kaposi sarcoma [...] what is the ddx for kaposi sarcoma bacillari angiomatosi caus by b. hensla
what will a biopsi show in kaposi sarcoma (hhv-8) [...] what will a biopsi show in bacillari angiomatosi (b. henslae) [...] what will a biopsi show in kaposi sarcoma (hhv-8) lymphocyt infiltr what will a biopsi show in bacillari angiomatosi (b. henslae) neutrophil infiltr lymphocyt infiltr should make sens becaus it's... a virus
infect of b-cell by hhv-8 can caus [...] infect of b-cell by hhv-8 can caus primari effus lymphoma (b-cell lymphoma)
primari effus lymphoma is a complic of what dna virus [...] primari effus lymphoma is a complic of what dna virus hhv-8 (kaposi sarcoma)
[...] is caus by hhv-8 and can produc leson in the gi tract . kaposi sarcoma is caus by hhv-8 and can produc leson in the gi tract . seem like a scant fact but have actual come across this in quit a few question
what cancer is associ with hhv8 [...] what cancer is associ with hhv8 kaposi sarcoma in aid patient
what is the etiolog of kaposi sarcoma [...] what is the etiolog of kaposi sarcoma hhv8
[...] is a neoplasm of endotheli cell caus by hhv-8 that present with dark/violaceous, flat and nodular skin lesion that repres endotheli growths. kaposi sarcoma is a neoplasm of endotheli cell caus by hhv-8 that present with dark/violaceous, flat and nodular skin lesion that repres endotheli growths. the gi and lung can also be affected.
[...] is a benign capillari skin papul that is common mistaken for kaposi sarcoma. bacillari angiomatosi is a benign capillari skin papul that is common mistaken for kaposi sarcoma.
what cell are prolifer in kaposi sarcoma [...] what cell are prolifer in kaposi sarcoma endothelium
hpv 1-4 caus [...] hpv 1-4 caus verruca vulgari (cutan common wart)
cutan common wart (verruca vulgaris) are caus by what strain of hpv [...] cutan common wart (verruca vulgaris) are caus by what strain of hpv hpv 1-4
laryng papillomatosi and condyloma acuminata are caus by what strain of hpv [...] laryng papillomatosi and condyloma acuminata are caus by what strain of hpv hpv 6-11
condyloma acuminata on the genit are caus by [...] condyloma acuminata on the genit are caus by hpv 6-11 left: hpv 1-4 verruca vulgaris; right: hpv 6-11 condyloma acuminata
what strain of hpv are associ with squamous cell carcinoma [...] what strain of hpv are associ with squamous cell carcinoma hpv 16-18, 31, 33
hpv encod what two protein that promot proteolysi of p53 and rb [...] hpv encod what two protein that promot proteolysi of p53 and rb e6 and e7
e6 encod by hpv promot proteolysi of [...] . e6 encod by hpv promot proteolysi of p53 . 6 befor 7, p befor r (e6 e7 p53 rb)
e7 encod by hpv promot proteolysi of [...] . e7 encod by hpv promot proteolysi of rb .
buzz word for hpv cervic cancer: [...] buzz word for hpv cervic cancer: post-coit bleed
hpv encod e6 and e7 which promot proteolysi of [...] and [...] . hpv encod e6 and e7 which promot proteolysi of p53 and rb .
guardasil hpv vaccin protect against what strain of hpv [...] guardasil hpv vaccin protect against what strain of hpv 6, 11, 16, 18
guardasil hpv vaccin is what type of vaccin [...] guardasil hpv vaccin is what type of vaccin subunit
squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix, vulva, vagina, anus, and peni are associ with what dna virus [...] squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix, vulva, vagina, anus, and peni are associ with what dna virus hpv 16-18
what type of vaccin is use for hbv [...] what type of vaccin is use for hbv subunit (recombin hbsag) onli two subunit vaccin are hpv (6, 11, 16, 18) and hbv (hbsag)
what is the etiolog of laryng papillomatosi [...] what is the etiolog of laryng papillomatosi hpv 6 and 11 can lead to laryng carcinoma
hpv has a predilect for what for what type of cell [...] hpv has a predilect for what for what type of cell stratifi squamous i'v seen a coupl of question ask about "patient with verruc lesions" or some way to describ hpv and they will expect you to know what other area it can effect (i.e. stratifi squamous of the true vocal cord -- laryng pipllomatosis)
which part of the respiratori epithelium can hpv infect [...] which part of the respiratori epithelium can hpv infect true vocal cord (produc laryng papillomatosi sort of deviat from micro here, but recal that hpv has a tropism for stratifi squamous; this question can then be turn to test your understand of basic histology, like of the upper respiratori tract -the true vocal cord are the onli part of the urt with stratifi squamous
which type of hpv have avail recombin vaccin [...] which type of hpv have avail recombin vaccin hpv 6, 11, 16, 18
[...] is a cancer caus by hpv in hiv patient that often present at the anus (in msm's) or the cervix. squamous cel carcinoma is a cancer caus by hpv in hiv patient that often present at the anus (in msm's) or the cervix.
what is the most common risk factor for squamous cell carcinoma of the peni [...] what is the most common risk factor for squamous cell carcinoma of the peni high-risk hpv (66% of cases)
which protein from high-risk hpv strain  to p53 [...] which protein from high-risk hpv strain  to p53 e6
[...] is a type of condyloma that is caus by hpv, typic type 6 and 11. condyloma acuminatum is a type of condyloma that is caus by hpv, typic type 6 and 11.
[...] are a histolog featur of hpv infect cell and involv a nucleus with a raisin-lik shape. koilocyt are a histolog featur of hpv infect cell and involv a nucleus with a raisin-lik shape.
what are the most common type of low-risk hpv [...] what are the most common type of low-risk hpv hpv6; hpv11
which strain of hpv are associ with cervic dysplasia or carcinoma in situ [...] which strain of hpv are associ with cervic dysplasia or carcinoma in situ hpv16; hpv18
what is the cancer risk associ with hpv6 [...] what is the cancer risk associ with hpv6 low
what is the cancer risk associ with hpv11 [...] what is the cancer risk associ with hpv11 low
what is the cancer risk associ with hpv31 [...] what is the cancer risk associ with hpv31 high
what is the key risk factor for cervic carcinoma [...] what is the key risk factor for cervic carcinoma high-risk hpv
what is the most common caus of condyloma [...] what is the most common caus of condyloma hpv6; hpv11
what is the caus of hpv-relat vulvar carcinoma [...] what is the caus of hpv-relat vulvar carcinoma hpv16 and hpv18
what is the cancer risk associ with hpv16 [...] what is the cancer risk associ with hpv16 high
which protein from high-risk hpv  to rb [...] which protein from high-risk hpv  to rb e7
what is the key risk factor for cervic carcinoma [...] what is the key risk factor for cervic carcinoma high-risk hpv
patholog chang seen in invas carcinoma of the cervix: [...] patholog chang seen in invas carcinoma of the cervix: koilocyt chang
diseas caus by jc virus [...] diseas caus by jc virus pml
pathogenesi of pml: [...] pathogenesi of pml: jc virus kill oligodendrocyt (demyelinating) throughout cns
[...] is a polyoma virus that can caus nephropathi and hemorrhag cystitis. bk virus is a polyoma virus that can caus nephropathi and hemorrhag cystitis.
jc virus is re at a cd count of: [...] jc virus is re at a cd count of: 200
what will be seen on neuroimag of a patient with pml [...] what will be seen on neuroimag of a patient with pml non-enhanc multifoc brain lesion in the white matter vs. toxoplasma which is ring-enhanc lesion crown repres lesion
"neurolog symptom with cd4 count 200; imag show multipl non-enhanc lesions" [...] "neurolog symptom with cd4 count 200; imag show multipl non-enhanc lesions" pml (jc virus)
[...] is a polyoma virus that can produc a nephropathi in transplant patients. bk virus is a polyoma virus that can produc a nephropathi in transplant patients.
what virus common target the kidney and transplant patient [...] what virus common target the kidney and transplant patient bk virus bk = bad kidney
what neuron cell are damag in pml [...] what neuron cell are damag in pml oligodendrocyt
[...] , polyomavirus and hepadnavirus are the onli 3 dna virus that have circular genomes. papillomavirus , polyomavirus and hepadnavirus are the onli 3 dna virus that have circular genomes. the remain dna virus are all linear.
papillomavirus, [...] and hepadnavirus are the onli 3 dna virus that have circular genomes. papillomavirus, polyomavirus and hepadnavirus are the onli 3 dna virus that have circular genomes. the remain dna virus are all linear.
papillomavirus, polyomavirus and [...] are the onli 3 dna virus that have circular genomes. papillomavirus, polyomavirus and hepadnavirus are the onli 3 dna virus that have circular genomes. the remain dna virus are all linear.
[...] is a dsdna polyomavirus that caus progress multifoc leukoencephalopathi (pml) in hiv patients.. jc virus is a dsdna polyomavirus that caus progress multifoc leukoencephalopathi (pml) in hiv patients..
[...] is a dsdna polyomavirus that common target the kidney in transplant patients. bk virus is a dsdna polyomavirus that common target the kidney in transplant patients. bk = b ad k idney jc = j unki c erebrum (pml)
what type of nucleic acid is found in polyomavirus [...] what type of nucleic acid is found in polyomavirus dsdna, circular
polyoma virus types: [...] polyoma virus types: jc, bk
what cd4+ cell count is associ with jc virus re in hiv patient [...] what cd4+ cell count is associ with jc virus re in hiv patient 200 cells/mm 3
[...] is a cns disord seen in hiv patient that involv the re of latent jc virus and subsequ demyelination. encephalopathi (progress multifoc leukoencephalopathy; pml) is a cns disord seen in hiv patient that involv the re of latent jc virus and subsequ demyelination.
what is the etiolog of progress multifoc leukoencephalopathi (pml) [...] what is the etiolog of progress multifoc leukoencephalopathi (pml) jc virus infect in hiv
slapped-cheek rash/fifth disease/erythema infectiosum = [...] slapped-cheek rash/fifth disease/erythema infectiosum = parvo b19
rash pattern in parvo b19: [...] rash pattern in parvo b19: face -- downward
virus that caus aplast anemia in sickl cell patients: [...] virus that caus aplast anemia in sickl cell patients: parvo b19
risk in pregnant women with parvo b19 infect [...] risk in pregnant women with parvo b19 infect hydrop fetali torch
what direct doe the rash move in parvo b19 [...] what direct doe the rash move in parvo b19 start on the face and move downward
parvo b19 infect [...] in the bone marrow, increas the risk of aplast crisis. parvo b19 infect erythroid precursor in the bone marrow, increas the risk of aplast crisis.
transmiss of parvo virus: [...] transmiss of parvo virus: respiratori droplet
what is a common viral caus of hydrop fetali [...] what is a common viral caus of hydrop fetali parvovirus b19
[...] is a viral caus of aplast anaemia that target progenitor red cells, therebi halt erythropoiesis. parvovirus b19 is a viral caus of aplast anaemia that target progenitor red cells, therebi halt erythropoiesis.
[...] is a possibl complic of sickl cell diseas that can be trigger by parvovirus b19. aplast crisi is a possibl complic of sickl cell diseas that can be trigger by parvovirus b19.
[...] is a ssdna virus that caus aplast crise in sickl cell disease. parvovirus b19 is a ssdna virus that caus aplast crise in sickl cell disease.
[...] is a ssdna virus that caus "slap cheeks" rash (erythema infectiosum; fifth disease) in children. parvovirus b19 is a ssdna virus that caus "slap cheeks" rash (erythema infectiosum; fifth disease) in children.
[...] is a ssdna virus that caus rbc destruct in fetus, therebi lead to hydrop fetali and death. parvovirus b19 is a ssdna virus that caus rbc destruct in fetus, therebi lead to hydrop fetali and death.
[...] is a ssdna virus that caus pure rbc aplasia. parvovirus b19 is a ssdna virus that caus pure rbc aplasia.
[...] is a ssdna virus that caus rheumatoid arthritis-lik symptom in adults. parvovirus b19 is a ssdna virus that caus rheumatoid arthritis-lik symptom in adults.
which viral infect is known to caus hydrop fetali [...] which viral infect is known to caus hydrop fetali parvovirus b19
what is the etiolog of erythema infectiosum (fifth disease) [...] what is the etiolog of erythema infectiosum (fifth disease) parvovirus b19
[...] is a sever complic of hereditari spherocytosi and can be trigger by parvovirus b19 infection. aplast crisi is a sever complic of hereditari spherocytosi and can be trigger by parvovirus b19 infection.
what type of nucleic acid is found in parvovirus [...] what type of nucleic acid is found in parvovirus ssdna, linear
what is the smallest dna virus [...] what is the smallest dna virus parvovirus
[...] is a cutan complic of parvovirus b19 infect that present as a "slap cheeks" rash in children. erythema infectiosium (fifth disease) is a cutan complic of parvovirus b19 infect that present as a "slap cheeks" rash in children.
[...] is a viral infect caus by parvovirus b19 that present with a "slap cheek" on the face. erythema infectiosum (fifth disease) is a viral infect caus by parvovirus b19 that present with a "slap cheek" on the face. parvovirus b19 can caus hydrop fetali in pregnant women.
first aid microbiology: red rash of childhood rash from parvovirus b19 appear with [...] rash on face first aid microbiology: red rash of childhood rash from parvovirus b19 appear with "slapped-cheek" rash on face - this is found in fifth diseas (erythema infectiosum ) can caus hydrop fetali in pregnant women
first aid microbiology: red rash of childhood rash from [microb ] appear with "slapped-cheek" rash on face first aid microbiology: red rash of childhood rash from parvovirus b19 appear with "slapped-cheek" rash on face - this is found in fifth diseas (erythema infectiosum ) can caus hydrop fetali in pregnant women
first aid microbiology: torch infect [...] can caus hydrop fetali in neonates. (virus) first aid microbiology: torch infect parvovirus b19 can caus hydrop fetali in neonates. (virus)
first aid microbiology: torch infect parvovirus b19 can caus [...] in neonates. (virus) first aid microbiology: torch infect parvovirus b19 can caus hydrop fetali in neonates. (virus)
all dna virus are ds except for [...] all dna virus are ds except for parvovirus ssdna = super small dna (smallest dna virus)
most common caus of tonsil [...] most common caus of tonsil adenovirus
bladder complic of adenovirus [...] bladder complic of adenovirus hemorrhag cystiti also caus by bk nephropathi (renal transplant pt)
at risk of adenovirus: [...] at risk of adenovirus: children, militari barracks, public swim pool outbreak
what type of vaccin is given to militari recruit for adenovirus [...] what type of vaccin is given to militari recruit for adenovirus live vaccin
most common caus of viral conjunct [...] most common caus of viral conjunct adenovirus
gross hematuria seen in adenovirus = [...] gross hematuria seen in adenovirus = hemorrhag cystiti
two type of transmiss in adenovirus [...] two type of transmiss in adenovirus respiratori droplets, fecal oral
what type of nucleic acid is found in adenovirus [...] what type of nucleic acid is found in adenovirus dsdna
which dsdna virus is associ with caus acut hemorrhag cystiti [...] which dsdna virus is associ with caus acut hemorrhag cystiti adenovirus
which dsdna virus is associ with febril pharyngitis, pneumonia and conjunct [...] which dsdna virus is associ with febril pharyngitis, pneumonia and conjunct adenovirus
[...] is a viral exanthem that involv firm, pink, umbil papul due to poxvirus infection. molluscum contagiosum is a viral exanthem that involv firm, pink, umbil papul due to poxvirus infection.
where in the cell do dna virus replic [...] where in the cell do dna virus replic nucleus, except for poxvirus
what is the onli dna virus that doe not have an icosahedr shape [...] what is the onli dna virus that doe not have an icosahedr shape poxvirus
what is the onli dna virus that doe not replic in the nucleus [...] what is the onli dna virus that doe not replic in the nucleus poxvirus it carri it own dna-depend rna polymerase.
what type of nucleic acid is found in poxvirus [...] what type of nucleic acid is found in poxvirus dsdna
[...] is a dsdna poxvirus that yield " milkmaid blister ". cowpox is a dsdna poxvirus that yield " milkmaid blister ".
what is the largest dna virus [...] what is the largest dna virus poxvirus
[...] is a cutan disord caus by poxvirus that present with flesh-colour dome lesion with a central umbil dimpl . molluscum contagiosum is a cutan disord caus by poxvirus that present with flesh-colour dome lesion with a central umbil dimpl .
where is the envelop for the pox virus obtain [...] where is the envelop for the pox virus obtain creat it own envelop hep b obtain envelop from er, pox virus creat it own
where doe the pox virus replic [...] where doe the pox virus replic cytoplasm recal it the largest dna virus, thus "too larg to get into the nucleus" -- the onli dna virus that doe not replic in the nucleus
what are the major differ between smallpox and chicken pox [...] what are the major differ between smallpox and chicken pox small pox lesion are synchron ( occur at same stage), while chickenpox (vzv) lesion are asynchron (differ stages)
flesh-color bump that have a central dimpl seen in aid patients: [...] flesh-color bump that have a central dimpl seen in aid patients: molluscum contagiosum (pox)
diffus molluscum contagiosum in adult suggests: [...] diffus molluscum contagiosum in adult suggests: hiv infect flesh color umbil skin lesion
what are the site of viral replic of pox virus call [...] what are the site of viral replic of pox virus call guarnieri bodi
guarnieri bodi are cytoplasm inclus bodi that are the site of viral replic of what virus [...] guarnieri bodi are cytoplasm inclus bodi that are the site of viral replic of what virus pox virus
dumbel shape core: [...] dumbel shape core: pox virus
cowpox can be transmit with contact through [...] . cowpox can be transmit with contact through infect cow udder . abl to be erad d/t onli 1 serotyp (henc vaccine), no carrier state, and no anim reservoir
[...] is caus by pox virus and will present with same-day lesions. smallpox is caus by pox virus and will present with same-day lesions.
poxvirus carri it own [...] . poxvirus carri it own dna-depend rna polymeras .
where is the envelop obtain from hep b virus [...] where is the envelop obtain from hep b virus er
hep b transmiss [...] hep b transmiss b lood, b aby-making, b irthing, iv drug use
in what part of the cell doe hep b undergo replic [...] in what part of the cell doe hep b undergo replic both intranuclear and cytoplasm
what enzym is util by hep b to  a dna intermedi [...] what enzym is util by hep b to  a dna intermedi revers transcriptas not consid a retrovirus becaus it doe not integr into the host genom
what cell mediat damag in hep b infect [...] what cell mediat damag in hep b infect cytotox t-cell virus travel to hepatocytes, complet dsdna genome; the ctl respons damag the liver cell cd8 t-cell respond to virus
what percentag of neonat hep b infect progress to chronic infect [...] adult [...] what percentag of neonat hep b infect progress to chronic infect 90% adult 10% neonat has 90% of his cooki left, mom has 10%
hepat complic of chronic hep b infect [...] hepat complic of chronic hep b infect cirrhosis, hepatocellular carcinoma
hep d requir [...] to be infectious. hep d requir hbsag to be infectious.
prognosi of co-infect of hep d and hep b transmit simultaneously: [...] prognosi of co-infect of hep d and hep b transmit simultaneously: good vs. superinfect
hep d transmit on top of exist hep b infection: [...] hep d transmit on top of exist hep b infection: superinfect
vascular extra-hepat manifest of hep b [...] vascular extra-hepat manifest of hep b polyarter nodosa
renal extrahepat manifest of hep b [...] renal extrahepat manifest of hep b gn and membranoprolif gn membranoprolif can occur with b or c
hematolog complic of hep b [...] hematolog complic of hep b aplast anemia
hbsag indic [...] . hbsag indic  infect .
what marker indic  infect with hep b [...] what marker indic  infect with hep b hbsag
what marker indic high infect with hep b [...] what marker indic high infect with hep b hbeag hbeag is secret by infect hepatocyt into circul and indic  viral replic and therefor high transmiss
hbeag is associ with [...] . hbeag is associ with high infect and transmiss .
what is the marker dure the window period of hep b [...] what is the marker dure the window period of hep b anti-hbc
anti-hbc is the sole marker dure the [...] . anti-hbc is the sole marker dure the window period .
what is the marker for recoveri or immun from hep b [...] what is the marker for recoveri or immun from hep b anti-hb recoveri : anti-hb ab + anti-hb or anti-hbc ab immun : anti-hb ab
anti-hb + anti-hb or anti-hbc ab = [...] anti-hb + anti-hb or anti-hbc ab = recoveri from hep b
hep b diagnost marker show onli anti-hb ab -- this indic that the patient has.... [...] hep b diagnost marker show onli anti-hb ab -- this indic that the patient has.... pt. has had hep b immun if it were anti-hbsab with anti-hb or anti-hbc, then it would indic recoveri from hep b infect
what liver function test is normal in neonat hepat [...] what liver function test is normal in neonat hepat alt
what should be given with vaccin to infant at risk of hep b infect [...] what should be given with vaccin to infant at risk of hep b infect anti-hepb igg antibodi
[...] is an interferon that can be use in the treatment for hep b (and hep c). inf-a is an interferon that can be use in the treatment for hep b (and hep c).
[...] is an nrti that can be use in the treatment of hep b. lamivudin is an nrti that can be use in the treatment of hep b.
[...] is not a retrovirus but has revers transcriptase. hbv is not a retrovirus but has revers transcriptase.
what famili doe the virus that requir hbsag to infect belong to [...] what famili doe the virus that requir hbsag to infect belong to rna deltavirus (hep b)
what dna virus is associ with membran glomerulonephr [...] what dna virus is associ with membran glomerulonephr hep b also mpgn below
what is the onli dna hepat virus [...] what is the onli dna hepat virus hbv all other are rna viruses.
how is hdv transmit [...] how is hdv transmit parenter the hepat worm: a-b-c-d- the end have fecal-or transmiss (a = mouth; e = anus). everyth els in between (bcd) is transmit parenterally.
how do ast level chang in hepat [...] how do ast level chang in hepat increas
[...] is a hepadnavirus that caus acut or chronic hepatitis. hbv is a hepadnavirus that caus acut or chronic hepatitis. not a retrovirus, but has revers transcriptase.
which hepat virus is common associ with caus needl prick in health care worker [...] which hepat virus is common associ with caus needl prick in health care worker hbv
which hepat virus is a defect virus that is depend on hbv co-infect or superinfect [...] which hepat virus is a defect virus that is depend on hbv co-infect or superinfect hdv superinfect yield a wors prognosis.
which antigen is associ with polyarter nodosa [...] which antigen is associ with polyarter nodosa hepat b surfac antigen (hbsag)
which hepat antigen is seroposit in 30% of patient with polyarter nodosa [...] which hepat antigen is seroposit in 30% of patient with polyarter nodosa hbsag
which type of hepat is characteris by ast alt [...] which type of hepat is characteris by ast alt alcohol hepat
which hepat virus is common acquir by travel [...] which hepat virus is common acquir by travel hav
which type of hepat is character by alt ast [...] which type of hepat is character by alt ast viral vir alt .
[...] is a type of viral hepat that involv ground glass hepatocytes. hepat b is a type of viral hepat that involv ground glass hepatocytes.
how is hbv transmit [...] how is hbv transmit parenter the hepat worm: a-b-c-d- the end have fecal-or transmiss (a = mouth; e = anus). everyth els in between (bcd) is transmit parenterally.
[...] are perinuclear halo that are characterist of hpv infections. koilocyt are perinuclear halo that are characterist of hpv infections.
[...] are a histolog featur of hpv infect cell and are a hallmark of hpv infection. koilocyt are a histolog featur of hpv infect cell and are a hallmark of hpv infection. veri appar in condyloma acuminatum.
[...] are soft, flesh-coloured, cauliflower-lik papul that appear on the skin due to hpv infect of keratinocytes. verruca (warts) are soft, flesh-coloured, cauliflower-lik papul that appear on the skin due to hpv infect of keratinocytes. on the genit it is call condyloma acuminatum .
what is the caus of verruca (warts) [...] what is the caus of verruca (warts) hpv infect of keratinocyt
what envelop protein of hiv is respons for fusion and entri into the host cell [...] what envelop protein of hiv is respons for fusion and entri into the host cell gp41
what is the major target on host cell for hiv [...] what two chemokin receptor are co-receptor to this target [...] what is the major target on host cell for hiv cd4+ on t-cell what two chemokin receptor are co-receptor to this target ccr5, cxcr4
follow fusion into the cell, viral hiv rna is revers transcrib into [...] follow fusion into the cell, viral hiv rna is revers transcrib into dsdna in the cytoplasm via revers transcriptas dna then travel to nucleus for integr into nucleas by viral integras
after transcript from rna, viral hiv dna is transport into the nucleus for inclus into the host chromosom by what enzym [...] what gene encod for this enzym [...] after transcript from rna, viral hiv dna is transport into the nucleus for inclus into the host chromosom by what enzym viral integras what gene encod for this enzym pol
lamivudin = [...] lamivudin = nrti
zidovudin (zdv) = [...] what is the histor name [...] zidovudin (zdv) = nrti what is the histor name azidothymidin (azt) know both name
tenofovir (tdf) = [...] tenofovir (tdf) = nucleo tide revers transcriptas inhibitor
what is the onli nucleo tide nrti [...] what is the onli nucleo tide nrti tenofovir
stavudin (d4t) = [...] stavudin (d4t) = nrti stavudin is nucleoside, not tide
emtricitabin (ftc) = [...] emtricitabin (ftc) = nrti
abacavir (abc) = [...] abacavir (abc) = nrti
didanosin (ddl) = [...] didanosin (ddl) = nrti
abacavir = [...] abacavir = nrti
nrtis prevent replic of hiv viral genom by termin elong of provir dna due to [...] . nrtis prevent replic of hiv viral genom by termin elong of provir dna due to lack of a 3'-oh .
nrtis inhibit phosphodiest bond at in which direct [...] nrtis inhibit phosphodiest bond at in which direct 3' to 5'
all nrtis requir phosphoryl by cellular enzym to be  except for which drug [...] all nrtis requir phosphoryl by cellular enzym to be  except for which drug tenofovir
the toxic that  from nrtis are base in part by the inhibit of what [...] the toxic that  from nrtis are base in part by the inhibit of what mitochondri dna synthesi some nrtis are capabl of inhibit human dna polymerase-i
what anti-retrovir therapi drug can caus mitochondri toxic [...] what anti-retrovir therapi drug can caus mitochondri toxic nrtis some nrtis are capabl of inhibit human dna polymerase-i
what hiv therapi drug is associ with bone marrow suppress [...] what hiv therapi drug is associ with bone marrow suppress zidovudin
what nrti can produc agranulocytosi as a  of bone marrow suppress [...] what nrti can produc agranulocytosi as a  of bone marrow suppress zidovudin do not administ with ganciclovir, otherwis patient will have sever myelosuppress
what neurolog side effect are associ with nrtis [...] what neurolog side effect are associ with nrtis peripher neuropathi
which haart therapi can produc lactic acidosi [...] which haart therapi can produc lactic acidosi nrti
what nrti is associ with anemia [...] what nrti is associ with anemia zidovudin
[...] are nucleoside/-tid analog that can produc lipodystrophi . nrti are nucleoside/-tid analog that can produc lipodystrophi . more associ with proteas inhibitor
what antivir therapi is associ with a type iv hypersensit reaction [...] what antivir therapi is associ with a type iv hypersensit reaction abacavir
abacavir hypersensit is associ with the [...] allele. abacavir hypersensit is associ with the hla-b 57:01 allele.
what anti-retrovir drug is contraind in hla-b 5701 mutat [...] what anti-retrovir drug is contraind in hla-b 5701 mutat abacavir
what anti-retrovir drug is associ with pancreat [...] what anti-retrovir drug is associ with pancreat didanosin
didanosin is an nrti most common associ with which advers effect [...] didanosin is an nrti most common associ with which advers effect pancreat
which anti-retrovir therapi drug is use to prevent vertic transmiss in pregnanc and breastfeed [...] which anti-retrovir therapi drug is use to prevent vertic transmiss in pregnanc and breastfeed zidovudin
zidovudin is use to decreas the vertic transmiss of [...] . zidovudin is use to decreas the vertic transmiss of hiv .
nevirapin = [...] nevirapin = nnrti
efavirenz = [...] efavirenz = nnrti
delavirdin = [...] delavirdin = nnrti
what hiv therapi drug act through alloster inhibit of hiv revers transcriptas [...] what hiv therapi drug act through alloster inhibit of hiv revers transcriptas nnrti
nnrti mechan of action [...] nnrti mechan of action alloster inhibit of rt
what are the effect of nnrtis on the cytochrom p450 [...] what are the effect of nnrtis on the cytochrom p450 varying; can induc or inhibit
[...] are revers transcriptas inhibitor that do not requir phosphoryl to be ated. nnrtis are revers transcriptas inhibitor that do not requir phosphoryl to be ated.
what haart drug can produc hepatotox [...] what haart drug can produc hepatotox nnrtis
[...] , efavirenz, and nevirapin are all nnrtis use in hiv therapy. delavirdin , efavirenz, and nevirapin are all nnrtis use in hiv therapy.
delavirdine, [...] , and nevirapin are all nnrtis use in hiv therapy. delavirdine, efavirenz , and nevirapin are all nnrtis use in hiv therapy.
delavirdine, efavirenz, and [...] are all nnrtis use in hiv therapy. delavirdine, efavirenz, and nevirapin are all nnrtis use in hiv therapy.
[...] is an nnrti that can produc cns symptom (dizziness, drowsiness, headache, psychosis). efavirenz is an nnrti that can produc cns symptom (dizziness, drowsiness, headache, psychosis).
what group of anti-retrovir drug can produc stevens-johnson syndrom [...] what group of anti-retrovir drug can produc stevens-johnson syndrom nnrtis
which anti-retrovir therapi drug are teratogen [...] which anti-retrovir therapi drug are teratogen nnrtis
[...] is an nnrti that can produc insomnia and nightmares. efavirenz is an nnrti that can produc insomnia and nightmares.
what anti-retrovir drug can produc insomnia and dysphor dream [...] what anti-retrovir drug can produc insomnia and dysphor dream efavirenz
- navir = [...] - navir = proteas inhibitor
suffix for proteas inhibitor = [...] suffix for proteas inhibitor = - navir indinavir, ritonavir, etc.
the pol gene encod for [...] , aspart protease, and integrase. the pol gene encod for revers transcriptas , aspart protease, and integrase.
the pol gene encod for revers transcriptase, [...] , and integrase. the pol gene encod for revers transcriptase, aspart proteas , and integrase.
the pol gene encod for revers transcriptase, aspart protease, and [...] . the pol gene encod for revers transcriptase, aspart protease, and integras .
assembl of hiv virion depend on [...] , which cleav the polypeptid product of hiv mrna into their function parts. it is encod for by what gene [...] assembl of hiv virion depend on aspar proteas , which cleav the polypeptid product of hiv mrna into their function parts. it is encod for by what gene pol the sword can't cleav the polypeptid product
what anti-retrovir drug can produc dyslipidemia [...] what anti-retrovir drug can produc dyslipidemia proteas inhibitor (- navir )
what anti-retrovir drug can have hyperglycemia due to insulin resist [...] what anti-retrovir drug can have hyperglycemia due to insulin resist proteas inhibitor
[...] are a group of anti-retrovir inhibitor of hiv-1 proteas that can produc lipodystrophi (cushing-lik syndrome). proteas inhibitor are a group of anti-retrovir inhibitor of hiv-1 proteas that can produc lipodystrophi (cushing-lik syndrome).
proteas inhibitor can produc lipodystrophy, character by [...] proteas inhibitor can produc lipodystrophy, character by central adiposity, insulin resist disord of lipid and cho metabol with central adipos and insulin resist
what anti-retrovir can produc nephrolithiasi [...] what anti-retrovir can produc nephrolithiasi indinavir indigo princess
indinavir is a proteas inhibitor that is associ with what renal complic [...] indinavir is a proteas inhibitor that is associ with what renal complic nephrolithiasi indigo princess
whi could the use of ritonavir be advantag in hiv therapi [...] whi could the use of ritonavir be advantag in hiv therapi greatest inhibitor of cytochrom p-450, which can boost the concentr of other proteas inhibitor
which of the proteas inhibitor has the greatest cyp-450 inhibitori effect [...] which of the proteas inhibitor has the greatest cyp-450 inhibitori effect ritonovir
env encod surfac protein are first sent to what organell [...] env encod surfac protein are first sent to what organell endoplasm reticulum
[...] is an hiv surfac glycoprotein that mediat attach to the host cd4+ t-cell. gp120 is an hiv surfac glycoprotein that mediat attach to the host cd4+ t-cell.
maraviroc moa [...] maraviroc moa  chemokin ccr-5 on host t-cells, inhibit interact with viral gp120
what chemokin receptor is maraviroc specif for [...] what chemokin receptor is maraviroc specif for ccr-5
[...] is a surfac glycoprotein that facilit hiv fusion and entry. gp41 is a surfac glycoprotein that facilit hiv fusion and entry.
[...] is a haart drug that  gp41, inhibit fusion and entri of hiv. enfuvirtid is a haart drug that  gp41, inhibit fusion and entri of hiv.
enfuvirtid  to what viral glycoprotein, prevent viral entri of hiv into cd4+ t-cell [...] enfuvirtid  to what viral glycoprotein, prevent viral entri of hiv into cd4+ t-cell gp41
[...] prevent hiv genom integr into the host cell by  viral integrase. raltegravir prevent hiv genom integr into the host cell by  viral integrase. in tegr ase inhibitors: ral tegr avir, elvi tegr avir , dolu tegr avir
hiv drug with the suffix - tegravir [...] hiv drug with the suffix - tegravir integras inhibitor in tegr ase inhibitors: ral tegr avir, elvi tegr avir , dolu tegr avir
what are the advers effect of integras inhibitor [...] what are the advers effect of integras inhibitor increas creatin kinas (rhabdomyolysis)
increas level of creatin kinas will be seen use what haart drug [...] increas level of creatin kinas will be seen use what haart drug integras inhibitor (i.e. raltegravir)
what haart drug will prevent the transcript of hiv mrna [...] what haart drug will prevent the transcript of hiv mrna integras inhibitor (- gravir ) prevent viral dsdna integr -- normal use host cell rna pol to produc viral mrnas ( i.e. transcript )
the gag structur gene encod for virion core protein [...] and [...] . the gag structur gene encod for virion core protein p24 and p17 .
the [...] structur gene encod for virion core protein p24 and p17. the gag structur gene encod for virion core protein p24 and p17.
what type of antiretrovir is abacavir (abc) [...] what type of antiretrovir is abacavir (abc) nrti
what type of haart drug is didanosin (ddi) [...] what type of haart drug is didanosin (ddi) nrti
what is the gi toxic of didanosin [...] what is the gi toxic of didanosin pancreat
what type of antiretrovir is lamivudin (3tc) [...] what type of antiretrovir is lamivudin (3tc) nrti
[...] is an nrti antiretrovir that is also use in the treatment of hbv infection. lamivudin is an nrti antiretrovir that is also use in the treatment of hbv infection.
what is the moa of lamivudin [...] what is the moa of lamivudin compet with deoxycytidin triphosph for incorpor into viral dna, therebi lead to chain termin
what type of haart drug is emtricitabin (ftc) [...] what type of haart drug is emtricitabin (ftc) nrti
what type of antiretrovir is stavudin (d4t) [...] what type of antiretrovir is stavudin (d4t) nrti
ifn-⍺ can be use to treat which hepat infect [...] ifn-⍺ can be use to treat which hepat infect hep b and c
[...] is a interferon that is use to treat malign melanoma. ifn-⍺ is a interferon that is use to treat malign melanoma.
what virus produc kaposi sarcoma [...] what interferon can be use to treat [...] what virus produc kaposi sarcoma hhv-8 what interferon can be use to treat ifn-⍺
treatment of kaposi sarcoma [...] treatment of kaposi sarcoma ifn-⍺
ifn-⍺ can be use in the treatment of what leukemia [...] ifn-⍺ can be use in the treatment of what leukemia hairi cell leukemia
hairi cell leukemia can be treat with what interferon [...] hairi cell leukemia can be treat with what interferon ifn-⍺
treatment [...] treatment ifn-⍺
what can be use in the treatment of condyloma acuminatum [...] what virus caus condyloma acuminatum [...] what can be use in the treatment of condyloma acuminatum ifn-⍺ what virus caus condyloma acuminatum hpv
what renal complic can ifn-⍺ be use to treat [...] what renal complic can ifn-⍺ be use to treat renal cell carcinoma
what ifn therapi can be use in the treatment of renal cell carcinoma [...] what ifn therapi can be use in the treatment of renal cell carcinoma ifn-⍺
what ifn therapi may produc drug-induc sle [...] what ifn therapi may produc drug-induc sle ifn-⍺
[...] is a interferon therapi that may produc a flu-lik syndrom , depression, tinnitus, and retinopathy. ifn-⍺ is a interferon therapi that may produc a flu-lik syndrom , depression, tinnitus, and retinopathy.
ifn therapi use in the treatment of multipl sclerosi [...] ifn therapi use in the treatment of multipl sclerosi ifn-β
what ifn therapi can be use in the treatment of chronic granulomat diseas [...] what ifn therapi can be use in the treatment of chronic granulomat diseas ifn-i
use of ifn-i [...] use of ifn-i treatment of chronic granulomat diseas
[...] is a guanin nucleosid analog that is use in the treatment of hepat c. ribavirin is a guanin nucleosid analog that is use in the treatment of hepat c.
[...] is a nucleosid analog that inhibit imp dehydrogenase, inhibit synthesi of guanin nucleotides. ribavirin is a nucleosid analog that inhibit imp dehydrogenase, inhibit synthesi of guanin nucleotides.
ribavirin is  by intracellular enzym and  viral [...] . ribavirin is  by intracellular enzym and  viral rna polymeras . inhibit imp dehydrogenase, inhibit guanin nucleotid synthesi
ribavirin can be use in the manag of what paramyxovirus [...] ribavirin can be use in the manag of what paramyxovirus rsv palivizumab is prefer in children
what is the main use of ribavirin [...] what other virus can it be use for [...] what is the main use of ribavirin hepat c what other virus can it be use for rsv not 1st line for rsv
teratogen hepat c therapi [...] teratogen hepat c therapi ribavirin
pegylated-ifn-⍺ is usual use in combin with [...] in the treatment of hepat c. pegylated-ifn-⍺ is usual use in combin with ribavirin in the treatment of hepat c.
prodrug that inhibit ns5b rna-dependent-rna-polymeras [...] what virus is this drug use in [...] prodrug that inhibit ns5b rna-dependent-rna-polymeras sofosbuvir what virus is this drug use in hcv ns5b is a viral phosphoprotein involv in viral replication, etc.
advers effect of sofosbuvir [...] advers effect of sofosbuvir fatigue, nausea, headach
advers effect of simeprevir [...] advers effect of simeprevir photosensit and rash
what hepat c treatment predispos to photosenstivitiy and rash [...] what hepat c treatment predispos to photosenstivitiy and rash simeprevir simmer = simeprevir
[...] is an hcv proteas inhibitor that can inhibit cytochrom p450. simeprevir is an hcv proteas inhibitor that can inhibit cytochrom p450.
[...] is an ns5a inhibitor given with sofosbuvir and simeprevir in the treatment of hepat c. ledipasvir is an ns5a inhibitor given with sofosbuvir and simeprevir in the treatment of hepat c.
[...] is an ns3/4a proteas inhibitor that prevent viral replication. simeprevir is an ns3/4a proteas inhibitor that prevent viral replication. ns= nonstructur 3 protein simmer = simeprevir
simeprevir is an [...] proteas inhibitor that prevent viral replication. simeprevir is an ns3/4a proteas inhibitor that prevent viral replication. ns= nonstructur 3 protein simmer = simeprevir
what type of haart drug is tenofovir (tdf) [...] what type of haart drug is tenofovir (tdf) nrti
[...] is an nrti that is alreadi a nucleotide, and henc doe not need to be phosphoryl to be ated. tenofovir is an nrti that is alreadi a nucleotide, and henc doe not need to be phosphoryl to be ated. the rest are all nucleosid and requir phosphorylation.
[...] is a nrti anti-retrovir drug that can caus nonmegaloblast macrocyt anaemia. zidovudin (azt) is a nrti anti-retrovir drug that can caus nonmegaloblast macrocyt anaemia.
[...] is a hematolog disord of zidovudin (zdv). anaemia is a hematolog disord of zidovudin (zdv).
what type of haart drug is zidovudin (zdv; azt) [...] what type of haart drug is zidovudin (zdv; azt) nrti
[...] is an nrti haart drug that is use for general prophylaxis. zidovudin (zdv; azt) is an nrti haart drug that is use for general prophylaxis.
[...] is an nrti haart drug that is use in pregnanc to decreas the risk of fetal transmission. zidovudin (zdv; azt) is an nrti haart drug that is use in pregnanc to decreas the risk of fetal transmission.
what type of haart drug is delavirdin [...] what type of haart drug is delavirdin nnrti
[...] and efavirenz are the 2 nnrti haart drug that are contraind in pregnancy. delavirdin and efavirenz are the 2 nnrti haart drug that are contraind in pregnancy.
delavirdin and [...] are the 2 nnrti haart drug that are contraind in pregnancy. delavirdin and efavirenz are the 2 nnrti haart drug that are contraind in pregnancy.
what type of haart drug is efavirenz [...] what type of haart drug is efavirenz nnrti
[...] is an nnrti haart drug that is associ with vivid dream and cns toxicity. efavirenz is an nnrti haart drug that is associ with vivid dream and cns toxicity.
[...] is a nnrti antiretrovir that caus insomnia and dysphor dream as side effects. efavirenz is a nnrti antiretrovir that caus insomnia and dysphor dream as side effects.
what type of haart drug is nevirapin [...] what type of haart drug is nevirapin nnrti
how doe nevirapin influenc cytochrom p450  [...] how doe nevirapin influenc cytochrom p450  increas
what type of haart drug is saquinavir [...] what type of haart drug is saquinavir proteas inhibitor
what type of haart is fosamprenavir [...] what type of haart is fosamprenavir proteas inhibitor
what type of haart drug is darunavir [...] what type of haart drug is darunavir proteas inhibitor
[...] is an hiv proteas inhibitor that inhibit cytochrom p450 , therebi it can increas the concentr of other drugs. ritonavir is an hiv proteas inhibitor that inhibit cytochrom p450 , therebi it can increas the concentr of other drugs.
what type of haart is indinavir [...] what type of haart is indinavir proteas inhibitor
how doe ritonavir influenc cytochrom p450  [...] how doe ritonavir influenc cytochrom p450  decreas
what type of haart drug is lopinavir [...] what type of haart drug is lopinavir proteas inhibitor
what is the common suffix for viral proteas inhibitor [...] what is the common suffix for viral proteas inhibitor -navir e.g. ritonavir
[...] is a complic of hiv proteas inhibitor that affect fat tissue. lipodystrophi is a complic of hiv proteas inhibitor that affect fat tissue.
[...] is an hiv proteas inhibitor that is associ with hematuria and nephropathy. indinavir is an hiv proteas inhibitor that is associ with hematuria and nephropathy.
what is the moa of maraviroc (haart fusion inhibitor) [...] what is the moa of maraviroc (haart fusion inhibitor)  to ccr5 on t cells/monocytes, therebi inhibit interact with gp120 and viral entri
what type of haart drug is enfuvirtid [...] what type of haart drug is enfuvirtid fusion inhibitor
what is the moa of enfuvirtid (haart fusion inhibitor) [...] what is the moa of enfuvirtid (haart fusion inhibitor)  to gp41, therebi inhibit viral entri
[...] is an haart drug that  to gp41 , therebi inhibit viral entry. enfuvirtid is an haart drug that  to gp41 , therebi inhibit viral entry.
what is the moa of the integras inhibitor antiretrovir raltegravir [...] what is the moa of the integras inhibitor antiretrovir raltegravir inihibit of viral dsdna integr into the host genom
what type of haart drug is raltegravir [...] what type of haart drug is raltegravir integras inhibitor
[...] is an integras inhibitor that is associ with hypercholesterolemia . raltegravir is an integras inhibitor that is associ with hypercholesterolemia .
what type of antiretrovir is raltegravir [...] what type of antiretrovir is raltegravir integras inhibitor
[...] is an interferon use to treat chronic hepat b and c . ifn-alpha is an interferon use to treat chronic hepat b and c .
[...] is an interferon use to treat kaposi sarcoma. ifn-alpha is an interferon use to treat kaposi sarcoma.
[...] is an interferon use to treat hairi cell leukemia. ifn-alpha is an interferon use to treat hairi cell leukemia.
[...] is an interferon use to treat condyloma accuminatum. ifn-alpha is an interferon use to treat condyloma accuminatum.
[...] is an interferon use to treat renal cell carcinoma. ifn-alpha is an interferon use to treat renal cell carcinoma.
[...] is an interferon use to treat malign melanoma. ifn-alpha is an interferon use to treat malign melanoma.
how doe ifn-alpha influenc nk cell  [...] how doe ifn-alpha influenc nk cell  increas
which interferon is use to treat chronic hbv and hcv [...] which interferon is use to treat chronic hbv and hcv ifn-alpha
which interferon is use to treat kaposi sarcoma [...] which interferon is use to treat kaposi sarcoma ifn-alpha
which interferon is use to treat hairi cell leukemia [...] which interferon is use to treat hairi cell leukemia ifn-alpha
which interferon is use to treat condyloma acuminatum [...] which interferon is use to treat condyloma acuminatum ifn-alpha
which interferon is use to treat renal cell carcinoma [...] which interferon is use to treat renal cell carcinoma ifn-alpha
which interferon is use to treat malign melanoma [...] which interferon is use to treat malign melanoma ifn-alpha
what is the musculoskelet toxic of ifn-alpha [...] what is the musculoskelet toxic of ifn-alpha myopathi
[...] is an interferon use to treat multipl sclerosis. ifn-beta is an interferon use to treat multipl sclerosis.
how doe ifn-beta influenc nk cell  [...] how doe ifn-beta influenc nk cell  increas
which interferon is use to treat multipl sclerosi [...] which interferon is use to treat multipl sclerosi ifn-beta
what is the clinic use of ifn-gamma [...] what is the clinic use of ifn-gamma chronic granulomat diseas (cgd)
[...] is an interferon use to treat chronic granulomat disease. ifn-gamma is an interferon use to treat chronic granulomat disease.
[...] is an anti-vir drug that inhibit imp dehydrogenase, an enzym involv in de novo purin synthesis. ribavirin is an anti-vir drug that inhibit imp dehydrogenase, an enzym involv in de novo purin synthesis.
what is the moa of ribavirin [...] what is the moa of ribavirin inhibit of inosin monophosph dehydrogenas , therebi inhibit guanin nucleotid synthesi
[...] is an antivir agent that is avoid in pregnanc as it is teratogenic. ribavirin is an antivir agent that is avoid in pregnanc as it is teratogenic.
[...] is a hematolog complic of ribavirin use. hemolyt anaemia is a hematolog complic of ribavirin use.
which enzym involv in de novo purin synthesi is inhibit by the antivir agent ribavirin [...] which enzym involv in de novo purin synthesi is inhibit by the antivir agent ribavirin imp dehydrogenas
[...] is a cutan complic associ with sulfa drugs. stevens-johnson syndrom is a cutan complic associ with sulfa drugs.
acyclovir (- clovir ) is a guanosin analog that is monophorsphoryl by what enzym [...] what virus are indic for the use of acyclovir [...] acyclovir (- clovir ) is a guanosin analog that is monophorsphoryl by what enzym viral thymidin kinas what virus are indic for the use of acyclovir hsv/vzv
what group of drug are monophosphoryl by viral thymidin kinas [...] what enzym  the triphosph [...] what group of drug are monophosphoryl by viral thymidin kinas acyclovir, famciclovir, valacyclovir (- clovir ) what enzym  the triphosph host enzym
what virus encod for the thymidin kinas need to monophosphoryl acyclovir [...] what virus encod for the thymidin kinas need to monophosphoryl acyclovir hsv/vzv
acyclovir triphosph incorpor into viral dna and inhibit [...] . acyclovir triphosph incorpor into viral dna and inhibit dna polymeras .
which anti-herpet has an increas oral bioavail [...] which anti-herpet has an increas oral bioavail valacyclovir
valacyclovir is an anti-herpet prodrug of acyclovir that has what advantag [...] valacyclovir is an anti-herpet prodrug of acyclovir that has what advantag improv bioavail
treatment of hsv enceph [...] treatment of hsv enceph acyclovir
treatment of neonat hsv [...] treatment of neonat hsv acyclovir
treatment of primari and recurr genit hsv infect [...] treatment of primari and recurr genit hsv infect acyclovir
hsv prophylaxi in pregnant women with  recurr genit herp [...] hsv prophylaxi in pregnant women with  recurr genit herp acyclovir
hsv prophylaxi in immunocompromis state [...] hsv prophylaxi in immunocompromis state acyclovir
treatment of vzv [...] treatment of vzv famcyclovir, valacyclovir higher bioavail
what  of hsv/vzv is acyclovir  against [...] what  of hsv/vzv is acyclovir  against  s, not the latent nucleosid analog can onli work in replic virus (i.e. if drug is dormant, it cannot insert into replic dna) henc not a cure, but will decreas symptom of acut phase
what is the mechan of resist against acyclovir [...] what is the mechan of resist against acyclovir mutat of viral thymidine-kinas
renal complic of acyclovir [...] renal complic of acyclovir interstiti nephritis, crystallin nephropathi
what anti-herpet can produc obstruct crystallin nephropathi [...] what anti-herpet can produc obstruct crystallin nephropathi acyclovir
nephrotox and crystallin nephropathi can be prevent in acyclovir treatment with what variabl [...] nephrotox and crystallin nephropathi can be prevent in acyclovir treatment with what variabl adequ hydrat
neurolog side effect of acyclovir [...] neurolog side effect of acyclovir delirium, confusion, vertigo, hallucin
what anti-herpet drug can produc cns side effect such as confusion, delirium, vertigo, hallucin [...] what anti-herpet drug can produc cns side effect such as confusion, delirium, vertigo, hallucin acyclovir (- clovir )
what is the drug of choic for herp enceph [...] what is the drug of choic for herp enceph acyclovir
what is the drug of choic for neonat hsv infect [...] what is the drug of choic for neonat hsv infect acyclovir
what is the clinic use of acyclovir [...] what is the clinic use of acyclovir hsv and vzv infect
[...] is the prodrug  of acyclovir. valacyclovir is the prodrug  of acyclovir.
which viral enzym monophosphoryl acyclovir/famciclovir/valacyclovir, therebi  it [...] which viral enzym monophosphoryl acyclovir/famciclovir/valacyclovir, therebi  it thymidin kinas
what is the moa of acyclovir/famciclovir/valacyclovir [...] what is the moa of acyclovir/famciclovir/valacyclovir guanosin analog; inhibit of viral dna polymerase, therebi caus chain termin it is onli phosphoryl in infect cells, henc there are veri few advers effects.
which herpesvirus are treat by acyclovir/famciclovir/valacyclovir [...] which herpesvirus are treat by acyclovir/famciclovir/valacyclovir hsv; vzv weak  against ebv. no  against cmv. no  against latent hsv/vzv.
[...] and acut renal failur are 2 renal complic of acyclovir/famciclovir/valacyclovir use if the patient is not hydrat properly. obstruct crystallin nephropathi and acut renal failur are 2 renal complic of acyclovir/famciclovir/valacyclovir use if the patient is not hydrat properly.
obstruct crystallin nephropathi and [...] are 2 renal complic of acyclovir/famciclovir/valacyclovir use if the patient is not hydrat properly. obstruct crystallin nephropathi and acut renal failur are 2 renal complic of acyclovir/famciclovir/valacyclovir use if the patient is not hydrat properly.
what is the mechan of resist to acyclovir/famciclovir/valacyclovir [...] what is the mechan of resist to acyclovir/famciclovir/valacyclovir mutat thymidin kinas
what is the treatment for acyclovir-resist hsv [...] what is the treatment for acyclovir-resist hsv foscarnet or cidofovir
what is the common suffix for viral dna polymeras inhibitor [...] what is the common suffix for viral dna polymeras inhibitor -ovir e.g. acyclovir
acyclovir is phosphoryl into acyclovir monophosph by the viral enzym [...] . acyclovir is phosphoryl into acyclovir monophosph by the viral enzym thymidin kinas .
what is the moa of acyclovir [...] what is the moa of acyclovir inhibit of dna polymerase, caus dna chain termin
what is the drug of choic for genit herp [...] what is the drug of choic for genit herp acyclovir
what is the clinic use of foscarnet [...] what is the clinic use of foscarnet cmv, hsv and vzv infect where ganciclovir or acyclovir fail
[...] is a topic antivir that treat herp labiali and herpet kerat by inhibit viral dna polymerase, therebi caus dna chain termination. acyclovir is a topic antivir that treat herp labiali and herpet kerat by inhibit viral dna polymerase, therebi caus dna chain termination.
which viral enzym is respons for  acyclovir [...] which viral enzym is respons for  acyclovir thymidin kinas
[...] is the prodrug  of acyclovir that has better oral bioavailability. valacyclovir is the prodrug  of acyclovir that has better oral bioavailability.
what is the treatment for herp zoster [...] what is the treatment for herp zoster famciclovir
what is the moa of cidofovir [...] what is the moa of cidofovir preferenti inhibit of viral dna polymeras
what is the treatment for cmv retin in immunocompromis patient when ganciclovir fail [...] what is the treatment for cmv retin in immunocompromis patient when ganciclovir fail foscarnet or cidofovir
what is the moa of cidofovir [...] what is the moa of cidofovir potent inhibit and altern substrat for viral dna polymeras
[...] is an antivir agent that act as a viral dna polymeras inhibitor by  to the pyrophosphate- site of the enzyme. foscarnet is an antivir agent that act as a viral dna polymeras inhibitor by  to the pyrophosphate- site of the enzyme.
what is the moa of foscarnet [...] what is the moa of foscarnet inhibit of viral dna polymeras by  to the pyrophosphate- site of the enzym
[...] is an anti-cmv drug that is an altern to ganciclovir and is not a nucleosid analog. foscarnet is an anti-cmv drug that is an altern to ganciclovir and is not a nucleosid analog.
what is the moa of foscarnet [...] what is the moa of foscarnet direct inhibit of viral dna polymerase, viral rna polyermas and hiv revers transcriptas
[...] and foscarnet are direct dna polymeras inhibitor use in the treatment of of acyclovir/ganciclovir resist hsv, vzv, or cmv. cidofovir and foscarnet are direct dna polymeras inhibitor use in the treatment of of acyclovir/ganciclovir resist hsv, vzv, or cmv.
cidofovir and [...] are direct dna polymeras inhibitor use in the treatment of of acyclovir/ganciclovir resist hsv, vzv, or cmv. cidofovir and foscarnet are direct dna polymeras inhibitor use in the treatment of of acyclovir/ganciclovir resist hsv, vzv, or cmv.
what per the first phosphoryl of ganciclovir [...] what gene encod the kinas [...] what per the first phosphoryl of ganciclovir cmv viral kinas what gene encod the kinas ul97
guanasin analog use to treat cmv [...] guanasin analog use to treat cmv ganciclovir
what  the triphosph of ganciclovir [...] what  the triphosph of ganciclovir host kinas
cmv infect are common with a cd4+ count of [...] what guanosin analog can be use to treat [...] cmv infect are common with a cd4+ count of 50 what guanosin analog can be use to treat ganciclovir
ganciclovir triphosph incorpor into what structur to halt synthesi of viral dna [...] ganciclovir triphosph incorpor into what structur to halt synthesi of viral dna dna polymeras
prodrug of ganciclovir [...] what is the advantag of said drug [...] prodrug of ganciclovir valganciclovir what is the advantag of said drug better oral bioavail
what virus is treat by ganciclovir [...] what virus is treat by ganciclovir cmv
hematolog complic of ganciclovir [...] hematolog complic of ganciclovir bone marrow suppress (leukopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia)
[...] and [...] are guanosin analog use as cmv prophylaxi in transplant patients. ganciclovir and valganciclovir are guanosin analog use as cmv prophylaxi in transplant patients.
[...] is use in the treatment of cmv retin when ganciclovir fails. foscarnet is use in the treatment of cmv retin when ganciclovir fails.
[...] and foscarnet are two anti-vir agent use to treat cmv by  direct to viral dna polymerase. cidofovir and foscarnet are two anti-vir agent use to treat cmv by  direct to viral dna polymerase. do not requir phosphoryl by a viral kinase.
cidofovir and [...] are two anti-vir agent use to treat cmv by  direct to viral dna polymerase. cidofovir and foscarnet are two anti-vir agent use to treat cmv by  direct to viral dna polymerase. do not requir phosphoryl by a viral kinase.
[...] is a neucleosid analog that can be use in the treatment of cmv with ul97 mutat and hsv with thymidin kinas mutat . cidofovir is a neucleosid analog that can be use in the treatment of cmv with ul97 mutat and hsv with thymidin kinas mutat .
clinic use of cidofovir [...] clinic use of cidofovir acyclovir/ganciclovir resist hsv, cmv, vzv
what are the advers effect on the kidney of cidofovir [...] what are the advers effect on the kidney of cidofovir nephrotoxicity, renal insuffici
what anti-vir agent can produc hypocalcemia [...] what anti-vir agent can produc hypocalcemia foscarnet
hypomagnesemia is a complic seen in which anti-cmv therapi [...] hypomagnesemia is a complic seen in which anti-cmv therapi foscarnet
[...] is an antivir therapi that can predispos to hypokalemia. foscarnet is an antivir therapi that can predispos to hypokalemia.
cns complic of foscarnet [...] cns complic of foscarnet seizur
cidofovir should be coadminist with what drug to prevent renal excret [...] cidofovir should be coadminist with what drug to prevent renal excret probenecid
probenecid should be administ with which antivir therapi to prevent renal excret and potenti toxic [...] probenecid should be administ with which antivir therapi to prevent renal excret and potenti toxic cidofovir
what is the moa of ganciclovir [...] what is the moa of ganciclovir guanosin analog; inhibit of viral dna polymerase, therebi caus chain termin
what is the treatment for cmv [...] what is the treatment for cmv ganciclovir
[...] is the prodrug  of ganciglovir that has better oral bioavailability. valganciclovir is the prodrug  of ganciglovir that has better oral bioavailability.
ganciclovir is initi phosphoryl by [...] in cmv infect cell . ganciclovir is initi phosphoryl by ul-97 in cmv infect cell .
ganciclovir is initi phosphoryl by [...] in hsv infect cells. ganciclovir is initi phosphoryl by thymidin kinas in hsv infect cells.
cidofovir must be administ with [...] which inhibit  tubular secret of cidofovir, therebi decreas it nephrotoxicity. cidofovir must be administ with probenecid which inhibit  tubular secret of cidofovir, therebi decreas it nephrotoxicity.
[...] must be administ with probenecid which inhibit  tubular secret of cidofovir, therebi decreas it nephrotoxicity. cidofovir must be administ with probenecid which inhibit  tubular secret of cidofovir, therebi decreas it nephrotoxicity.
[...] is a drug that must be co-administ with the antivir cidofovir to decreas it nephrotixicity. probenecid is a drug that must be co-administ with the antivir cidofovir to decreas it nephrotixicity. iv salin is also given.
what is the doc for entamoeba histolytica and giardia lambl a [...] what is the doc for entamoeba histolytica and giardia lambl a metronidazol
how is giardiasi transmit [...] how is giardiasi transmit cyst in water
what is the etiolog of giardiasi [...] what is the etiolog of giardiasi giardia lamblia
[...] is a gi protozo infect that present with bloating, flatulence, and foul-smelling, fatti diarrhea . giardiasi is a gi protozo infect that present with bloating, flatulence, and foul-smelling, fatti diarrhea .
which demograph is often affect by giardiasi ( giardia lamblia ) [...] which demograph is often affect by giardiasi ( giardia lamblia ) campers/hik
what type of diarrhea is seen in giardiasi [...] what type of diarrhea is seen in giardiasi fatty, foul-smel diarrhea
[...] is a protozo gi infect that is diagnos by trophozoit or cyst in the stool. giardiasi is a protozo gi infect that is diagnos by trophozoit or cyst in the stool.
what is the treatment for giardiasi [...] what is the treatment for giardiasi metronidazol
what type of diarrhea is caus by most protozoa [...] what type of diarrhea is caus by most protozoa wateri e.g. giardia, cryptosporidium
doe the trophozoit  of giardia invad the intestin wall [...] doe the trophozoit  of giardia invad the intestin wall no, just attach therefore, there is no bloodi diarrhea
giardia (parasite) common present with bloat , [...] and foul - smell [...] giardia (parasite) common present with bloat , flatul and foul - smell wateri diarrhea giardia symptom is synonym with the regret that fill your stomach after devour $10 worth of taco bell (recal that $10 goe a long way at t-bell)
the foul-smel diarrhea seen in a giardia infect is due to [...] the foul-smel diarrhea seen in a giardia infect is due to steatorrhea* (fatti diarrhea) *buzzword! fatty, yellow stool - due to fat malabsorpt
the foul-smel diarrhea seen in a [...] infect is due to steatorrhea* (fatti diarrhea) the foul-smel diarrhea seen in a giardia infect is due to steatorrhea* (fatti diarrhea) *buzzword! fatty, yellow stool - due to fat malabsorpt
the steatorrhea in giardia is hypothes to stem from excess [...] product that impair fat absorpt in the [...] the steatorrhea in giardia is hypothes to stem from excess mucus product that impair fat absorpt in the intestin fatty, yellow, foul-smel stool
what vitamin defici can occur with a giardia infect [...] what vitamin defici can occur with a giardia infect fat solubl (adek) excess mucus product impair fat absorpt in the intestines,  in steatorrhea
weight [...] is common seen in giardia infect weight loss is common seen in giardia infect excess mucus product inhibit fat absorpt in the intestines, lead to steatorrhea
giardia is ingest in the cyst . after ingestion, it differenti into the [ ] . giardia is ingest in the cyst . after ingestion, it differenti into the trophozoit . trophozoit - multipli stage of protozoa notic that in this  is has flagella (b = cyst)
giardia is ingest in the [ ] . after ingestion, it differenti into the trophozoit . giardia is ingest in the cyst . after ingestion, it differenti into the trophozoit . trophozoit - multipli stage of protozoa notic that in this  is has flagella (b = cyst)
doe the trophozoit  of giardia present with bloodi diarrhea [...] doe the trophozoit  of giardia present with bloodi diarrhea no attach but doe not invad the intestin wall
[...] in [...] is diagnost of giardia infect trophozoit in stool is diagnost of giardia infect recal that trophozoit of giardia attach to the intestin wall
what diagnost test(s) is/ar run to test for giardia [...] what diagnost test(s) is/ar run to test for giardia stool o&amp;p (ova and parasites); elisa stool antigen
which intestin parasite(s) is/ar ingest via contamin water in the cyst  [...] which intestin parasite(s) is/ar ingest via contamin water in the cyst  giardia; entamoeba histolytica
what is the rout of giardia transmiss [...] what is the rout of giardia transmiss fecal-or individu (typic "world travelers") becom infect when they visit a region indigen to giardia and drink unfilt water - water is typic infect with animal, or human, fece
when individu consum water fill with [ ] of giardia , infect occur when individu consum water fill with cyst of giardia , infect occur cyst of giardia are transmit fecal-or
[...] caus bloating, flatulence, foul-smellng, fatti diarrhea (often seen in campers/hikers) and is treat with metronidazol giardia lamblia caus bloating, flatulence, foul-smellng, fatti diarrhea (often seen in campers/hikers) and is treat with metronidazol
giardia lamblia caus bloating, flatulence, foul-smellng, fatti diarrhea (often seen in campers/hikers) and is treat with [...] giardia lamblia caus bloating, flatulence, foul-smellng, fatti diarrhea (often seen in campers/hikers) and is treat with metronidazol
giardia is a parasit common transmit through consumpt of poor purifi [...] giardia is a parasit common transmit through consumpt of poor purifi water
what parasit is common associ with individu who go camp and do not purifi their water befor consumpt [...] what parasit is common associ with individu who go camp and do not purifi their water befor consumpt giardia
what is an elisa look for when test for giardia [...] what is an elisa look for when test for giardia stool antigen
what is the etiolog of amoebiasi [...] what is the etiolog of amoebiasi entamoeba histolytica
[...] is a gi protozo infect that present with flask-shap ulcer at the gi submucosa. amoebiasi is a gi protozo infect that present with flask-shap ulcer at the gi submucosa. entamoeba histolytica caus the ulceration.
how is amoebiasi ( entamoeba histolytica ) transmit [...] how is amoebiasi ( entamoeba histolytica ) transmit cyst in water
what is the treatment for amoebiasi ( entamoeba histolytica ) [...] what is the treatment for amoebiasi ( entamoeba histolytica ) metronidazol
what is the treatment for asymptomat passer of entamoeba histolytica cyst [...] what is the treatment for asymptomat passer of entamoeba histolytica cyst iodoquinol
what type of diarrhea is caus by entamoeba histolytica [...] what type of diarrhea is caus by entamoeba histolytica bloodi (amoeb dysentery)
___ present as a mass in the liver that is treat pharmacolog entamoeba histolytica::entamoeba histolytica or echinococcus; you do not drain the liver abscess of entamoeba histolytica, instead treat with metronidazol + paramycin/iodoquinol
[...] caus blood diarrhea (dysentery), liver abscess (" anchovi past " exudate), ruq pain with histolog show a flask-shap ulcer and is treat with metronidazol (iodoquinol for asymptomat cyst passers) entamoeba histolytica caus blood diarrhea (dysentery), liver abscess (" anchovi past " exudate), ruq pain with histolog show a flask-shap ulcer and is treat with metronidazol (iodoquinol for asymptomat cyst passers)
entamoeba histolytica caus blood diarrhea (dysentery), liver abscess (" anchovi past " exudate), ruq pain with histolog show a flask-shap ulcer and is treat with [...] entamoeba histolytica caus blood diarrhea (dysentery), liver abscess (" anchovi past " exudate), ruq pain with histolog show a flask-shap ulcer and is treat with metronidazol (iodoquinol for asymptomat cyst passers)
doe the trophozoit  of entamoeba histolytica present with bloodi diarrhea [...] doe the trophozoit  of entamoeba histolytica present with bloodi diarrhea yes
how mani life-cycl stage doe entamoeba histolytica have [...] how mani life-cycl stage doe entamoeba histolytica have 2
which  of entamoeba histolytica is infecti when ingest [...] which  of entamoeba histolytica is infecti when ingest cyst 
differenti of entamoeba histolytica to the trophozoit  in the colon allow the parasit to enter the [...] circul and, eventually, the [...] differenti of entamoeba histolytica to the trophozoit  in the colon allow the parasit to enter the portal circul and, eventually, the liver
trophozoit that contain endocytos rbcs are diagnost of [...] trophozoit that contain endocytos rbcs are diagnost of entamoeba histolytica
trophozoit that contain endocytos [...] are diagnost of entamoeba histolytica trophozoit that contain endocytos rbcs are diagnost of entamoeba histolytica
[...] that contain endocytos rbcs are diagnost of entamoeba histolytica trophozoit that contain endocytos rbcs are diagnost of entamoeba histolytica
intestin biopsi with flask-shap lesion is diagnost of [...] intestin biopsi with flask-shap lesion is diagnost of entamoeba histolytica
what treatment are avail for asymptomat cyst passer of entamoeba [2 options] what treatment are avail for asymptomat cyst passer of entamoeba paromomycin or iodoquinol - iodoquinol work by chelat iron need for amoeba metabol - paromomycin is a protein synthesi inhibitor by inhibit 16s ribosom rna
what demograph is entamoeba histolytica associ with [...] what demograph is entamoeba histolytica associ with msms (men who have sex w/ men)
what transmiss is entamoeba histolytica associ with [...] what transmiss is entamoeba histolytica associ with anal-or transmiss
the cyst  of entamoeba histolytica resid in the small intestin , while different to the [...]  occur in the [...] the cyst  of entamoeba histolytica resid in the small intestin , while different to the trophozoit  occur in the colon
entamoeba histolytica can caus [...] , which are describ as have " anchovi past " consist entamoeba histolytica can caus liver abscess , which are describ as have " anchovi past " consist
entamoeba histolytica can caus liver abscess , which are describ as have " [...] " consist entamoeba histolytica can caus liver abscess , which are describ as have " anchovi past " consist
entamoeba histolytica can caus [...] , with ulcer along the wall of the colon , and present with bloodi diarrhea entamoeba histolytica can caus intestin amebiasi , with ulcer along the wall of the colon , and present with bloodi diarrhea patient will also present with ruq pain
entamoeba histolytica can caus intestin amebiasi , with [...] along the wall of the [...] , and present with bloodi diarrhea entamoeba histolytica can caus intestin amebiasi , with ulcer along the wall of the colon , and present with bloodi diarrhea patient will also present with ruq pain
entamoeba histolytica can caus intestin amebiasi , with ulcer along the wall of the colon , and present with [...] diarrhea entamoeba histolytica can caus intestin amebiasi , with ulcer along the wall of the colon , and present with bloodi diarrhea patient will also present with ruq pain
what shape do the lesion present as in entamoeba histolytica " [...] " what shape do the lesion present as in entamoeba histolytica " flask-shap " seen with the man drink from an erlenmey flask
what test (3) are use to diagnos entamoeba histolytica [...] ; elisa stool+serum antigen test; serolog to detect entamoeba antibodi what test (3) are use to diagnos entamoeba histolytica stool o&amp;p (ova and parasites) ; elisa stool+serum antigen test; serolog to detect entamoeba antibodi look for cyst (c) and trophozit (d) in stool
what test (3) are use to diagnos entamoeba histolytica stool o&amp;p (ova and parasites); [...] ; serolog to detect entamoeba antibodi what test (3) are use to diagnos entamoeba histolytica stool o&amp;p (ova and parasites); elisa stool+serum antigen test ; serolog to detect entamoeba antibodi look for cyst (c) and trophozit (d) in stool
what test (3) are use to diagnos entamoeba histolytica stool o&amp;p (ova and parasites); elisa stool+serum antigen test; [...] what test (3) are use to diagnos entamoeba histolytica stool o&amp;p (ova and parasites); elisa stool+serum antigen test; serolog to detect entamoeba antibodi look for cyst (c) and trophozit (d) in stool
what is the treatment for symptomat infect of entamoeba histolytica [...] what is the treatment for symptomat infect of entamoeba histolytica metronidazol
metronidazol is use as treatment for which intestin parasit [...] metronidazol is use as treatment for which intestin parasit giardia; entamoeba histolytica
which two drug elimin cyst of entamoeba histolytica in the lumen of the intestin [...] which two drug elimin cyst of entamoeba histolytica in the lumen of the intestin paramycin; iodoquinol consid lumin agent pair of mice run into the tunnel; queen iodo head in the dig site
[...] is a gi protozo pathogen that caus sever diarrhea in aids. cryptosporidium is a gi protozo pathogen that caus sever diarrhea in aids. it caus mild, wateri diarrhea in the immunocompetent.
how is cryptosporidium transmit [...] how is cryptosporidium transmit oocyst in the water
what is the treatment for cryptosporidium infect in immunocompet host [...] what is the treatment for cryptosporidium infect in immunocompet host nitazoxanid
[...] is a gi protozo pathogen that is diagnos by visual oocyst on an acid-fast stain. cryptosporidium is a gi protozo pathogen that is diagnos by visual oocyst on an acid-fast stain.
what type of stain is requir to diagnos cryptosporidium infect [...] what type of stain is requir to diagnos cryptosporidium infect acid-fast
[...] is a protozoa that caus gi infect in hiv patient that present with chronic, wateri diarrhea. cryptosporidium spp. is a protozoa that caus gi infect in hiv patient that present with chronic, wateri diarrhea. acid fast cyst are seen in the stool.
what is the treatment for cryptosporidium [...] what is the treatment for cryptosporidium prevention; via filter of citi water suppli
first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit [...] caus sever diarrhea in aid patient but is a mild diseas character by wateri diarrhea in immunocompet host and is treat with prevent (filter water) or nitazoxanid in immunocompet host first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit cryptosporidium caus sever diarrhea in aid patient but is a mild diseas character by wateri diarrhea in immunocompet host and is treat with prevent (filter water) or nitazoxanid in immunocompet host
first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit cryptosporidium caus sever diarrhea in aid patient but is a mild diseas character by wateri diarrhea in immunocompet host and is treat with [...] or nitazoxanid in immunocompet host first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit cryptosporidium caus sever diarrhea in aid patient but is a mild diseas character by wateri diarrhea in immunocompet host and is treat with prevent (filter water) or nitazoxanid in immunocompet host
first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit cryptosporidium caus sever diarrhea in aid patient but is a mild diseas character by wateri diarrhea in immunocompet host and is treat with prevent (filter water) or [...] first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit cryptosporidium caus sever diarrhea in aid patient but is a mild diseas character by wateri diarrhea in immunocompet host and is treat with prevent (filter water) or nitazoxanid in immunocompet host
cryptosporidia are [...] -cellular, partial [...] stain organ cryptosporidia are uni -cellular, partial acid-fast stain organ
cryptosporidium oocyst can be visual with an [...] stain cryptosporidium oocyst can be visual with an acid-fast stain ***on parasit we learn about through sketchi that stain acid fast
cryptosporidium is pass via infecti [...] present in stool cryptosporidium is pass via infecti oocyst present in stool
cryptosporidium can be treat with the macrolid antibiot [...] cryptosporidium can be treat with the macrolid antibiot spiramycin ***not fda approv in the us
[...] can be treat with the macrolid antibiot spiramycin cryptosporidium can be treat with the macrolid antibiot spiramycin ***not fda approv in the us
cryptosporidium spp infect are often found in hiv+ patient with cd4 cell count [...] cryptosporidium spp infect are often found in hiv+ patient with cd4 cell count 100/mm 3
first aid microbiology: microbi stain the [...] stain is use for acid-fast bacteria such as mycobacteria and nocardia:2 as well as protozoa such as cryptosporidium oocysts. first aid microbiology: microbi stain the ziehl-neelsen stain is use for acid-fast bacteria such as mycobacteria and nocardia:2 as well as protozoa such as cryptosporidium oocysts.
first aid microbiology: microbi stain the ziehl-neelsen stain is use for [...] such as mycobacteria and nocardia:2 as well as [...] such as cryptosporidium oocysts. first aid microbiology: microbi stain the ziehl-neelsen stain is use for acid-fast bacteria such as mycobacteria and nocardia:2 as well as protozoa such as cryptosporidium oocysts.
first aid microbiology: microbi stain the ziehl-neelsen stain is use for acid-fast bacteria such as [...] as well as protozoa such as [...] . first aid microbiology: microbi stain the ziehl-neelsen stain is use for acid-fast bacteria such as mycobacteria and nocardia:2 as well as protozoa such as cryptosporidium oocyst .
first aid microbiology: microbi caus of diarrhea [...] , such as giardia and cryptosporidium can caus wateri diarrhea. first aid microbiology: microbi caus of diarrhea protozoa , such as giardia and cryptosporidium can caus wateri diarrhea.
first aid microbiology: microbi caus of diarrhea protozoa, such as giardia and cryptosporidium can caus [...] . first aid microbiology: microbi caus of diarrhea protozoa, such as giardia and cryptosporidium can caus wateri diarrhea .
first aid microbiology: microbi caus of diarrhea protozoa, such as [...] and [...] can caus wateri diarrhea. first aid microbiology: microbi caus of diarrhea protozoa, such as giardia and cryptosporidium can caus wateri diarrhea.
the oocyst of [what parasite] consist of 4 motil sporozoit the oocyst of cryptosporidium consist of 4 motil sporozoit
the oocyst of cryptosporidium consist of 4 motil [...] the oocyst of cryptosporidium consist of 4 motil sporozoit
[...] of cryptosporidium attach to the intestin wall , caus wateri diarrhea and small intestin damag sporozoit of cryptosporidium attach to the intestin wall , caus wateri diarrhea and small intestin damag - cryptosporidium is associ with the small intestin - wateri diarrhea is associ with immunocompet hosts, wherea sever diarrhea is associ with aid patient -
sporozoit of cryptosporidium attach to the intestin wall , caus [...] and [...] intestin damag sporozoit of cryptosporidium attach to the intestin wall , caus wateri diarrhea and small intestin damag - cryptosporidium is associ with the small intestin - wateri diarrhea is associ with immunocompet hosts, wherea sever diarrhea is associ with aid patient -
oocyst that stain acid-fast on stool o&amp;p are indic of [...] oocyst that stain acid-fast on stool o&amp;p are indic of cryptosporidium
[...] that stain acid-fast on stool o&amp;p are indic of cryptosporidium oocyst that stain acid-fast on stool o&amp;p are indic of cryptosporidium
nitazoxanid is an antiprotozo use exclus in [...] host to treat cryptosporidium nitazoxanid is an antiprotozo use exclus in immunocompet host to treat cryptosporidium
[...] is an antiprotozo use exclus in immunocompet host to treat cryptosporidium nitazoxanid is an antiprotozo use exclus in immunocompet host to treat cryptosporidium
cryptosporidium is high resist to chlorin , therefor [...] is use to remov the parasit from water cryptosporidium is high resist to chlorin , therefor filtrat is use to remov the parasit from water
[...] is a cns protozo infect that is diagnos via tachyzoit on biopsy. toxoplasmosi is a cns protozo infect that is diagnos via tachyzoit on biopsy.
[...] is a lymphoma often associ with ebv in that can present as focal or multipl lesions, therebi differenti it from toxoplasmosis. primari b-cell cns lymphoma is a lymphoma often associ with ebv in that can present as focal or multipl lesions, therebi differenti it from toxoplasmosis.
what is the prophylact treatment for pneumocysti pneumonia and toxoplasmosi in an hiv patient with 200 cd4+ cells/mm 3 [...] what is the prophylact treatment for pneumocysti pneumonia and toxoplasmosi in an hiv patient with 200 cd4+ cells/mm 3 tmp-smx
brain toxoplasmosi is a cns infect by [...] that involv cerebr abscess with tachyzoit and ring-enhanc lesion on mri. brain toxoplasmosi is a cns infect by toxoplasma gondii that involv cerebr abscess with tachyzoit and ring-enhanc lesion on mri.
which cns symptom is uniqu to fetal toxoplasmosi [...] which cns symptom is uniqu to fetal toxoplasmosi hydrocephalus
what is the etiolog of toxoplasmosi [...] what is the etiolog of toxoplasmosi toxoplasma gondii
what is the treatment for toxoplasmosi [...] what is the treatment for toxoplasmosi sulfadiazin and pyrimethamin
how is toxoplasma gondii transmit [...] how is toxoplasma gondii transmit cat feces; ingest of undercook meat
[...] is a cns protozo infect that present with a classic triad of chorioretinitis, hydrocephalus and intracrani calcif . congenit toxoplasmosi is a cns protozo infect that present with a classic triad of chorioretinitis, hydrocephalus and intracrani calcif .
how is toxoplasmosi ( toxoplasma gondii ) transmit [...] how is toxoplasmosi ( toxoplasma gondii ) transmit cyst in meat; oocyst in cat feces; transplacent
[...] is a protozoa that caus cns abscess in hiv patient that present as ring-enhanc lesion on imaging. toxoplasma gondii is a protozoa that caus cns abscess in hiv patient that present as ring-enhanc lesion on imaging.
what cd4+ cell count is associ with toxoplasma gondii infect in hiv patient [...] what cd4+ cell count is associ with toxoplasma gondii infect in hiv patient 100 cells/mm 3
[...] is a torch infect that present as a classic triad of chorioretinitis, hydrocephalus and intracrani calcif in neonates. toxoplasma gondii is a torch infect that present as a classic triad of chorioretinitis, hydrocephalus and intracrani calcif in neonates.
pregnant women are at risk of transplacent transmiss of [...] and so should avoid chang cat litter . pregnant women are at risk of transplacent transmiss of toxoplasma gondii and so should avoid chang cat litter . oocyst are found in anim fece ( main cat ). pregnant women should avoid undercook meat and cat to be safe.
toxoplasma gondii can caus brain abscess in immunocompromis patients, show as [...] lesion on ct or mri. toxoplasma gondii can caus brain abscess in immunocompromis patients, show as ring enhanc lesion on ct or mri. especi in hiv patients.
toxoplasma gondii can caus [...] in immunocompromis patients, show as ring enhanc lesion on ct or mri. toxoplasma gondii can caus brain abscess in immunocompromis patients, show as ring enhanc lesion on ct or mri. especi in hiv patients.
cns toxoplasmosi can be differenti from cns lymphoma by [...] biopsy. cns toxoplasmosi can be differenti from cns lymphoma by brain biopsy. toxoplasma enceph may caus singl brain lesion but this more like indic lymphoma. toxo tend to caus multipl lesions.
toxoplasmosi can be transmit via cyst in [...] (food). toxoplasmosi can be transmit via cyst in undercook meat (food). remember: also transmit via cat fece and transplacentally.
toxoplasmosi can be treat with [...] and [...] . toxoplasmosi can be treat with sulfadiazin and pyrimethamin .
what drug can be use for toxoplasmosi prophylaxi in hiv patient [...] what drug can be use for toxoplasmosi prophylaxi in hiv patient tmp-smx
first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit suramin is an antiparasit that combin with [...] enzym to inhibit [...] metabol first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit suramin is an antiparasit that combin with glycolyt enzym to inhibit energi metabol use for peripher blood trypansoma brucei infect
the two treatment for [...] infect are suramin treatment for the peripher blood infect and melarsoprol treatment for the cns infection. the two treatment for tryaponosoma brucei infect are suramin treatment for the peripher blood infect and melarsoprol treatment for the cns infection. suramin=serum b/c the tryaponosoma brucei infect penetr into the cns, the medic do so as well, lead to fair sever side effects.
the two treatment for tryaponosoma brucei infect are [...] and [...] . the two treatment for tryaponosoma brucei infect are suramin treatment for the peripher blood infect and melarsoprol treatment for the cns infect . suramin=serum b/c the tryaponosoma brucei infect penetr into the cns, the medic do so as well, lead to fair sever side effects.
what is the treatment for african sleep sick [...] what is the treatment for african sleep sick suramin for blood-born diseas or melarsoprol for cns penetr "it sur e is nice to go to sleep. mela tonin can help with that."
what is the treatment for trypanosoma brucei [...] what is the treatment for trypanosoma brucei suramin + melarsoprol
first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit [...] caus enlarg lymph nodes, recur fever, somnolence, and eventu coma and is treat with suramin for blood born diseas or melarsoprol for cns penetr first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit trypanosoma brucei caus enlarg lymph nodes, recur fever, somnolence, and eventu coma and is treat with suramin for blood born diseas or melarsoprol for cns penetr
first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit trypanosoma brucei caus enlarg lymph nodes, recur fever, somnolence, and eventu coma and is treat with [...] for blood born diseas or melarsoprol for cns penetr first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit trypanosoma brucei caus enlarg lymph nodes, recur fever, somnolence, and eventu coma and is treat with suramin for blood born diseas or melarsoprol for cns penetr
first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit trypanosoma brucei caus enlarg lymph nodes, recur fever, somnolence, and eventu coma and is treat with suramin for blood born diseas or [...] for cns penetr first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit trypanosoma brucei caus enlarg lymph nodes, recur fever, somnolence, and eventu coma and is treat with suramin for blood born diseas or melarsoprol for cns penetr
[...] is a cns protozo pathogen that caus rapid fatal meningoenceph . naegleria fowleri is a cns protozo pathogen that caus rapid fatal meningoenceph .
how is naegleria fowleri transmit [...] how is naegleria fowleri transmit swim in freshwat lakes; enter cns through the cribi plate
[...] is a cns protozo pathogen that caus a rapid fatal meningoenceph and is diagnos by amoeba in the spinal fluid . naegleria fowleri is a cns protozo pathogen that caus a rapid fatal meningoenceph and is diagnos by amoeba in the spinal fluid .
what is the treatment for naegleria fowleri infect [...] what is the treatment for naegleria fowleri infect amphotericin b has been effect for a few survivor
[...] caus rapid fatal meningoenceph and is treat with amphotericin b naegleria fowleri caus rapid fatal meningoenceph and is treat with amphotericin b
naegleria fowleri caus rapid fatal meningoenceph and is treat with [...] naegleria fowleri caus rapid fatal meningoenceph and is treat with amphotericin b
naegleria fowleri is associ with [...] and [...] . naegleria fowleri is associ with freshwat and nasal irrig and contact len solut . realli ani stagnant water is a good enviro for naegleria fowleri to multiply.
[...] is associ with freshwat and nasal irrig and contact len solutions. naegleria fowleri is associ with freshwat and nasal irrig and contact len solutions. realli ani stagnant water is a good enviro for naegleria fowleri to multiply.
naegleria fowleri can enter [...] through the cribi plate. naegleria fowleri can enter the cns through the cribi plate. note the cribs. goe up nose, through cribi plate, to cns.
naegleria fowleri can enter the cns through [...] . naegleria fowleri can enter the cns through the cribi plate . note the cribs. goe up nose, through cribi plate, to cns.
naegleria fowleri can caus [...] . naegleria fowleri can caus menigoenceph . when it the cause, the diseas is primari amoeb meningoencephalitis.
the prognosi of [...] is poor becaus of meningoencephalitis. the prognosi of naegleria fowleria is poor becaus of meningoencephalitis.
the prognosi of naegleria fowleria is [...] becaus of [...] . the prognosi of naegleria fowleria is poor becaus of meningoenceph .
patient [...] are typic of naegleria fowleri. patient involv with water sport are typic of naegleria fowleri. eg hiking, camping, hot springs, etc.
patient involv with water sport are typic of [...] . patient involv with water sport are typic of naegleria fowleri . eg hiking, camping, hot springs, etc.
naegleria fowleri is diagnos with [...] . naegleria fowleri is diagnos with a lumbar punctur . "champagn tap" is a perfect lumbar puncture.
naegleria fowleri is treat with [...] . naegleria fowleri is treat with amphoterecin .
[...] is an anti-protozo drug use to treat all  of leishmaniasis. sodium stiboglucon is an anti-protozo drug use to treat all  of leishmaniasis.
what is the etiolog of viscer leishmaniasi (kala-azar) [...] what is the etiolog of viscer leishmaniasi (kala-azar) leishmania donovani
[...] is a viscer protozo infect that present with spike fever, hepatosplenomegali and pancytopenia . viscer leishmaniasi (kala-azar) is a viscer protozo infect that present with spike fever, hepatosplenomegali and pancytopenia .
how is viscer leishmaniasi (kala-azar) transmit [...] how is viscer leishmaniasi (kala-azar) transmit sandfli all leishmania are transmit via the sandfly.
[...] is a viscer protozo infect that is diagnos by the visual of macrophag contain amastigot . viscer leishmaniasi (kala-azar) is a viscer protozo infect that is diagnos by the visual of macrophag contain amastigot .
first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit leishmaniasi is treat by [...] and [...] first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit leishmaniasi is treat by stibuglucon and amphotericin b
[...] caus spike fevers, hepatosplenomegaly, pancytopenia and is treat with amphotericin b and/or sodium stiboglucon leishmania donovani caus spike fevers, hepatosplenomegaly, pancytopenia and is treat with amphotericin b and/or sodium stiboglucon
leishmania donovani caus spike fevers, hepatosplenomegaly, pancytopenia and is treat with [...] and/or sodium stiboglucon leishmania donovani caus spike fevers, hepatosplenomegaly, pancytopenia and is treat with amphotericin b and/or sodium stiboglucon
leishmania donovani caus spike fevers, hepatosplenomegaly, pancytopenia and is treat with amphotericin b and/or [...] leishmania donovani caus spike fevers, hepatosplenomegaly, pancytopenia and is treat with amphotericin b and/or sodium stiboglucon
the host for the parasit leishmania braziliensi are [...] the host for the parasit leishmania braziliensi are vertebr note: especi human
in patient with [what diseas ] , leishmania braziliensi consum the flesh of it victim, caus disfigur ulcer in patient with cutan leishmaniasi , leishmania braziliensi consum the flesh of it victim, caus disfigur ulcer
in patient with cutan leishmaniasis, [what parasit ] consum the flesh of it victim, caus disfigur ulcer in patient with cutan leishmaniasis, leishmania braziliensi consum the flesh of it victim, caus disfigur ulcer
[...] are the vector for leishmania braziliensi and they will inject the parasit into the skin of human sandfli are the vector for leishmania braziliensi and they will inject the parasit into the skin of human human are the host
sandfli are the [...] for leishmania braziliensi and they will inject the parasit into the skin of human sandfli are the vector for leishmania braziliensi and they will inject the parasit into the skin of human human are the host
sandfli are the vector for [...] and they will inject the parasit into the skin of human sandfli are the vector for leishmania braziliensi and they will inject the parasit into the skin of human human are the host
the most import find for diagnosi of leishmania braziliensi is [...] . this requir requir aspir of marrow, spleen, lymph nodes, or skin lesion which are then spread on a slide and analyz the most import find for diagnosi of leishmania braziliensi is amastigot seen within macrophag . this requir requir aspir of marrow, spleen, lymph nodes, or skin lesion which are then spread on a slide and analyz the cytoplasm around the big purpl nuclei of the macrophag are fill with tini stain nuclei of the amastigot
patient with [what diseas ] will have scatter hyperpig spot that look black patient with viscer leishmaniasi will have scatter hyperpig spot that look black
patient with viscer leishmaniasi will have [what physic exam find ] patient with viscer leishmaniasi will have scatter hyperpig spot that look black
[what disease] is also known as black fever or kala-azar viscer leishmaniasi is also known as black fever or kala-azar
viscer leishmaniasi is also known as [...] viscer leishmaniasi is also known as black fever or kala-azar
[...] is the wors of all leishmaniosi and is 100% fatal if left untreat viscer leishmaniasi is the wors of all leishmaniosi and is 100% fatal if left untreat
viscer leishmaniasi is the wors of all leishmaniosi and [what happen to patient if left untreat ] viscer leishmaniasi is the wors of all leishmaniosi and is 100% fatal if left untreat
[what  of] leishmaniosi will caus pancytopenia when it infect the bone marrow viscer leishmaniosi will caus pancytopenia when it infect the bone marrow
viscer leishmaniosi will caus [what condition] when it infect the bone marrow viscer leishmaniosi will caus pancytopenia when it infect the bone marrow
viscer leishmaniosi will caus pancytopenia when it infect [what organ ] viscer leishmaniosi will caus pancytopenia when it infect the bone marrow
viscer leishmaniasi can affect almost everi organ but most common it affect [what organ ] viscer leishmaniasi can affect almost everi organ but most common it affect the liver, spleen, and bone marrow
[what  of] leishmaniasi can affect almost everi organ but most common it affect the liver, spleen, and bone marrow viscer leishmaniasi can affect almost everi organ but most common it affect the liver, spleen, and bone marrow
the characterist exam find of patient with viscer leishmaniasi are [...] the characterist exam find of patient with viscer leishmaniasi are fever, pancytopenia, weakness, and hepatosplenomegali
the characterist exam find of patient with [what  of leishmaniasi ] are fever, pancytopenia, weakness, and hepatosplenomegali the characterist exam find of patient with viscer leishmaniasi are fever, pancytopenia, weakness, and hepatosplenomegali
tradit treatment for [what  of leishmaniosi ] is stiboglucon tradit treatment for cutan leishmaniosi is stiboglucon
tradit treatment for cutan leishmaniosi is [...] tradit treatment for cutan leishmaniosi is stiboglucon
treatment for [what  of leishmaniosi ] is amphotericin b treatment for viscer leishmaniosi is amphotericin b
treatment for viscer leishmaniosi is [...] treatment for viscer leishmaniosi is amphotericin b
what protozoan infect is common associ with dilat cardiomyopathi [...] what protozoan infect is common associ with dilat cardiomyopathi chaga diseas (caus by trypanosoma cruzi )
[...] is a viscer protozo infect that is diagnos by the visual of trypanosoma cruzi on a peripher blood smear. chaga diseas is a viscer protozo infect that is diagnos by the visual of trypanosoma cruzi on a peripher blood smear.
what is the treatment for chaga diseas ( trypanosoma cruzi ) [...] what is the treatment for chaga diseas ( trypanosoma cruzi ) nifurtimox
how is chaga diseas ( trypanosoma cruzi ) transmit [...] how is chaga diseas ( trypanosoma cruzi ) transmit reduviid bug (aka the "kiss bug") fece the bug bite is painless .
[...] caus dilat cardiomyopathi with apic atrophy, megacolon , megaesophagus and is treat with benznidazol or nifurtimox trypanosoma cruzi caus dilat cardiomyopathi with apic atrophy, megacolon , megaesophagus and is treat with benznidazol or nifurtimox
trypanosoma cruzi caus dilat cardiomyopathi with apic atrophy, megacolon , megaesophagus and is treat with [...] or nifurtimox trypanosoma cruzi caus dilat cardiomyopathi with apic atrophy, megacolon , megaesophagus and is treat with benznidazol or nifurtimox
trypanosoma cruzi caus dilat cardiomyopathi with apic atrophy, megacolon , megaesophagus and is treat with benznidazol or [...] trypanosoma cruzi caus dilat cardiomyopathi with apic atrophy, megacolon , megaesophagus and is treat with benznidazol or nifurtimox
trypanosoma cruzi can caus [...] disease. trypanosoma cruzi can caus chaga disease.
[...] can caus chaga disease. trypanosoma cruzi can caus chaga disease.
[...] is transmit by the reduviid, or "kiss bug". trypanosoma cruzi is transmit by the reduviid, or "kiss bug".
trypanosoma cruzi is transmit by the [...] . trypanosoma cruzi is transmit by the reduviid, or "kiss bug" .
symptom of [...] includ megacolon, mega-esophagus, and dilat cardiomyopathy. symptom of trypanosoma cruzi infect includ megacolon, mega-esophagus, and dilat cardiomyopathy. megacolon can present as acut abdomen or constipation.
symptom of trypanosoma cruzi infect includ [...] . symptom of trypanosoma cruzi infect includ megacolon, mega-esophagus, and dilat cardiomyopathi . megacolon can present as acut abdomen or constipation.
trypanosoma cruzi can also be diagnos by an unfrequ done test, which is [...] . trypanosoma cruzi can also be diagnos by an unfrequ done test, which is a heart biopsi show trypanosoma within cardaic myocyt .
[...] trypanosoma cruzi infect is diagnos by blood smear, wherea [...] trypanosoma cruzi is diagnos with serolog and clinic symptoms.  trypanosoma cruzi infect is diagnos by blood smear, wherea chronic (chagas) trypanosoma cruzi is diagnos with serolog and clinic symptoms.
 trypanosoma cruzi infect is diagnos by [...] , wherea chronic (chagas) trypanosoma cruzi is diagnos with [...] .  trypanosoma cruzi infect is diagnos by blood smear , wherea chronic (chagas) trypanosoma cruzi is diagnos with serolog and clinic symptom .
[when ] , trypanosoma cruzi is treat with [...] . acut , trypanosoma cruzi is treat with nifurtimox . no known effect treatment for chronic chagas.
trypanosoma cruzi get into the heart by [...] . trypanosoma cruzi get into the heart by burrow into the endocardium .
trypanosoma cruzi doe it damag by [...] . trypanosoma cruzi doe it damag by tunnel into tissu and feed on the blood and lymph of it victim .
acutely, trypanosoma cruzi symptom are [...] . acutely, trypanosoma cruzi symptom are not mani (the diseas may be asymptomatic) except for some local inflamm around the bite site .
[...] after be infect with trypanosoma cruzi, chaga diseas develops. 10-20 year after be infect with trypanosoma cruzi, chaga diseas develops. symptom of chaga includ megacolon, megaesophagus, and dilat cardiomyopathy.
10-20 year after be infect with trypanosoma cruzi, [...] . 10-20 year after be infect with trypanosoma cruzi, chaga diseas develop . symptom of chaga includ megacolon, megaesophagus, and dilat cardiomyopathy.
what type of anaemia is seen in infect that target rbcs, such as malaria and babesiosi [...] what type of anaemia is seen in infect that target rbcs, such as malaria and babesiosi extrins hemolyt anaemia (normocytic)
[...] is a speci of protozoa transmit by the ixod tick that caus a hematolog infection. babesia is a speci of protozoa transmit by the ixod tick that caus a hematolog infection.
where in the unit state is babesiosi predomin found [...] where in the unit state is babesiosi predomin found northeastern usa
how doe asplenia influenc the risk of obtain sever babesiosi [...] how doe asplenia influenc the risk of obtain sever babesiosi increas
[...] is a hematolog protozo infect that is diagnos by a "maltes cross" in rbcs in a peripher blood smear. babesiosi is a hematolog protozo infect that is diagnos by a "maltes cross" in rbcs in a peripher blood smear. (1) show a ring  in the rbc, which is also seen in malaria. so be sure to either look for the maltes cross or doubl check the transmission/present to confirm that it is babesiosis.
what is the treatment for babesiosi ( babesia spp. ) atovaquon + azithromycin the patient partner also receiv metronidazol as prophylaxis.
[...] caus fever and hemolyt anemia (predomin in the northeastern us) and is treat with atovaqon + azithromycin babesia caus fever and hemolyt anemia (predomin in the northeastern us) and is treat with atovaqon + azithromycin
babesia caus fever and hemolyt anemia (predomin in the northeastern us) and is treat with [...] + azithromycin babesia caus fever and hemolyt anemia (predomin in the northeastern us) and is treat with atovaqon + azithromycin
babesia caus fever and hemolyt anemia (predomin in the northeastern us) and is treat with atovaqon + [...] babesia caus fever and hemolyt anemia (predomin in the northeastern us) and is treat with atovaqon + azithromycin
sever case of babesia infect can  in [...] and [...] . sever case of babesia infect can  in malaria like symptom and death .
[...] infect caus primarili blood relat symptoms, includ hemolyt anemia, hemoglobinuria, and  jaundice. babesiosa infect caus primarili blood relat symptoms, includ hemolyt anemia, hemoglobinuria, and  jaundice.
babesiosa infect caus primarili [...] , includ [...] , [...] , and [...] . babesiosa infect caus primarili blood relat symptom , includ hemolyt anemia , hemoglobinuria , and  jaundic .
[...] is carri by the ixod tick, and is spread to human through it saliva. (parasitic) babesia is carri by the ixod tick, and is spread to human through it saliva. (parasitic) the longer the tick is attached, the higher the chanc of transmiss
babesia is carri by [...] , and is spread to human through it [...] . (parasitic) babesia is carri by the ixod tick , and is spread to human through it saliva . (parasitic) the longer the tick is attached, the higher the chanc of transmiss
becaus [...] is the vector not just for babesia, but also for borrelia burgdforferi, which caus lime disease, coinfect is common in babesia infection. becaus the ixod tick (deer tick) is the vector not just for babesia, but also for borrelia burgdforferi, which caus lime disease, coinfect is common in babesia infection.
becaus the ixod tick (deer tick) is the vector not just for babesia, but also for [...] , which caus [...] , coinfect is common in babesia infection. becaus the ixod tick (deer tick) is the vector not just for babesia, but also for borrelia burgdforferi , which caus lime diseas , coinfect is common in babesia infection.
becaus the ixod tick (deer tick) is the vector not just for babesia, but also for borrelia burgdforferi, which caus lime disease, [...] in babesia infection. becaus the ixod tick (deer tick) is the vector not just for babesia, but also for borrelia burgdforferi, which caus lime disease, coinfect is common in babesia infection.
[...] infect can caus irregulari cycl fevers. babesiosa infect can caus irregulari cycl fevers.
babesiosa infect can caus [...] fevers. babesiosa infect can caus irregulari cycl fevers.
[...] infect lead to a higher risk of sever diseas in sickl cell disease. (parasites) babesia infect lead to a higher risk of sever diseas in sickl cell disease. (parasites)
babesia infect lead to a higher risk of [...] . (parasites) babesia infect lead to a higher risk of sever diseas in sickl cell diseas . (parasites)
babesiosi is diagnos through a [...] , with a [...] apper of red blood cells. babesiosi is diagnos through a blood smear , with a maltes cross apper of red blood cells. the cross is forrm by a tetrad of trophozoites.
the drug use to treat [...] are atovaquon and azithromycin. the drug use to treat babesiosi are atovaquon and azithromycin. azithromycin is a ma-"crow"-lide.
the drug use to treat babesiosi are [...] and [...] . the drug use to treat babesiosi are atovaquon and azithromycin . azithromycin is a ma-"crow"-lide.
how is trichomona vaginali transmit [...] how is trichomona vaginali transmit sexual (it cannot exist outsid the human bodi as it cannot  cysts)
[...] is an std caus protozoa that common caus vagin that present with foul-smelling, greenish discharg . trichomona vaginali is an std caus protozoa that common caus vagin that present with foul-smelling, greenish discharg . do not confus this with gardnerella vaginalis, a gram-vari bacteria that caus vaginosis. also rememb the differ between vagin iti and vagin osi . vagin is painful.
[...] is a sexual transmit protoza that is diagnos by the visual of mobil trophozoit on a wet mount. trichomona vaginali is a sexual transmit protoza that is diagnos by the visual of mobil trophozoit on a wet mount.
[...] caus foul-smelling, greenish vagin discharg and is treat with metronidazol trichomona vaginali caus foul-smelling, greenish vagin discharg and is treat with metronidazol
trichomona vaginali caus foul-smelling, greenish vagin discharg and is treat with [...] trichomona vaginali caus foul-smelling, greenish vagin discharg and is treat with metronidazol
symptom of the vagin caus by a trichomona vaginali infect includ [...] , itching, and malodor discharg symptom of the vagin caus by a trichomona vaginali infect includ burn , itching, and malodor discharg
symptom of the vagin caus by a trichomona vaginali infect includ burning, [...] , and malodor discharg symptom of the vagin caus by a trichomona vaginali infect includ burning, itch , and malodor discharg
symptom of the vagin caus by a trichomona vaginali infect includ burning, itching, and [...] symptom of the vagin caus by a trichomona vaginali infect includ burning, itching, and malodor discharg
trichomona vaginali symptom includ a [...] (color) cervic discharg trichomona vaginali symptom includ a yellow green (color) cervic discharg
one diagnost tool for trichomona vaginali is wet mount which would show motil [...] one diagnost tool for trichomona vaginali is wet mount which would show motil trophozoit wet mount is also use for gardnerella and even candida
one diagnost tool for trichomona vaginali is [...] which would show motil trophozoit one diagnost tool for trichomona vaginali is wet mount which would show motil trophozoit wet mount is also use for gardnerella and even candida
one diagnost tool for trichomona vaginali is wet mount which would show [...] trophozoit one diagnost tool for trichomona vaginali is wet mount which would show motil trophozoit wet mount is also use for gardnerella and even candida
trichomona vaginali infect occur in a ph of [...] trichomona vaginali infect occur in a ph of 4.5 so doe gardnerella but candida is found in normal ph ( 4.5)
trichomona vaginali is transmit [...] trichomona vaginali is transmit sexual like other stis, oftentimes, male don't show symptom
the treatment for trichomona vaginali is [...] the treatment for trichomona vaginali is metronidazol rememb to treat both partners!
[what common parasit std] caus vagin and other -iti of the urogenit tract includ cervicti describ as "strawberri cervix" trichomona vaginali caus vagin and other -iti of the urogenit tract includ cervicti describ as "strawberri cervix"
trichomona vaginali caus vagin and other -iti of the urogenit tract includ [...] describ as "strawberri cervix" trichomona vaginali caus vagin and other -iti of the urogenit tract includ cervicti describ as "strawberri cervix"
trichomona vaginali caus vagin and other -iti of the urogenit tract includ cervicti describ as [...] trichomona vaginali caus vagin and other -iti of the urogenit tract includ cervicti describ as "strawberri cervix"
what is the period of fever yield by plasmodium vivax [...] . what is the period of fever yield by plasmodium vivax everi 48 hours; tertian malaria .
what is the period of fever elicit by plasmodium oval [...] . what is the period of fever elicit by plasmodium oval everi 48 hours; tertian malaria .
what is the period of fever elicit by plasmodium malaria [...] . what is the period of fever elicit by plasmodium malaria everi 72 hours; quartan malaria .
what is the period of fever elicit by plasmodium falciparum [...] . what is the period of fever elicit by plasmodium falciparum everi 36-48 hours; irregular/continu fever .
how do plasmodium spp . caus anaemia [...] . how do plasmodium spp . caus anaemia rbc hemolysi .
[...] is the drug of choic to treat for dormant malaria caus by plasmodium vivax and plasmodium ovale. primaquin is the drug of choic to treat for dormant malaria caus by plasmodium vivax and plasmodium ovale. remember, these speci yield the dormant hypnozoites.
which stain is use to visual plasmodium [...] which stain is use to visual plasmodium giemsa
what is the etiolog of malaria [...] what is the etiolog of malaria plasmodium spp.
which plasmodium speci is associ with dormant hypnozoit in the liver [...] which plasmodium speci is associ with dormant hypnozoit in the liver plasmodium vivax; plasmodium oval
which plasmodium speci is associ with a quartan (72 hrs) cycl of fever [...] which plasmodium speci is associ with a quartan (72 hrs) cycl of fever plasmodium malaria
which plasmodium speci is associ with veri sever malaria [...] which plasmodium speci is associ with veri sever malaria plasmodium falciparum
which plasmodium speci is associ with malaria that has irregular fever pattern [...] which plasmodium speci is associ with malaria that has irregular fever pattern plasmodium falciparum
[...] is a speci of plasmodium that yield veri sever malaria that present with parasit rbcs that occlud capillari in the brain, kidney and lung . plasmodium falciparum is a speci of plasmodium that yield veri sever malaria that present with parasit rbcs that occlud capillari in the brain, kidney and lung .
[...] is a sever  of malaria that present with occlus of capillari in the brain by parasit rbcs. cerebr malaria is a sever  of malaria that present with occlus of capillari in the brain by parasit rbcs. caus by plasmodium falciparum
how is malaria ( plasmodium spp. ) transmit [...] how is malaria ( plasmodium spp. ) transmit anophel mosquito
what is the initi treatment for malaria ( plasmodium spp. ) [...] what is the initi treatment for malaria ( plasmodium spp. ) chloroquin  plasmodium heme polymerase.
what is the moa of chloroquin in the treatment of malaria [...] what is the moa of chloroquin in the treatment of malaria  of plasmodium heme polymeras
which antiplasmodi drug is ad onto chloroquin in plasmodium vivax/oval infect to elimin hypnozoit [...] which antiplasmodi drug is ad onto chloroquin in plasmodium vivax/oval infect to elimin hypnozoit primaquin you must test for g6pd defici first .
what is the clinic use of chloroquin [...] what is the clinic use of chloroquin malaria caus by plasmodium sp. other than plasmodium falciparum the frequenc of plasmodium falciparum resist to chloroquin is veri high.
what is the treatment for plasmodium falciparum malaria [...] what is the treatment for plasmodium falciparum malaria artemether/lumefrantrin or atovaquone/proguanil
what is the mechan of resist to chloroquin in plasmodium falciparum [...] what is the mechan of resist to chloroquin in plasmodium falciparum membran pump that decreas intracellular concentr of the drug
first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit if the causat organ for malaria is [...] , add primaquin for effect against the hypnozoit  first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit if the causat organ for malaria is p vivax/oval , add primaquin for effect against the hypnozoit  primaquin generat re oxygen speci that inhibit electron transport chain in plasmodium
first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit if the causat organ for malaria is p vivax/ovale, add [...] for effect against the hypnozoit  first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit if the causat organ for malaria is p vivax/ovale, add primaquin for effect against the hypnozoit  primaquin generat re oxygen speci that inhibit electron transport chain in plasmodium
[matur  of trophozoites] divid into [ that infect rbcs] which burst from hepatocyt and infect rbc (plasmodium life cycle) schizont divid into merozoit which burst from hepatocyt and infect rbc (plasmodium life cycle) schizont is the matur  of trophozoit (asexu reproduction), in which the parasit has divid multipl time in the host cell. then, they releas merozoit which are the  that can infect rbcs, which then again matur into an schizont insid the rbcs. until they reach maduration, they are call trophozoit (after rbcs infection).
[...] appear in a ring-shap  with the rbcs in perypher blood smear (plasmodium life cycle) trophozoit appear in a ring-shap  with the rbcs in perypher blood smear (plasmodium life cycle) inmatur schizont = trophozoit
[...] are the  that can reproduc sexual in the plasmodium life cycl gametocyt are the  that can reproduc sexual in the plasmodium life cycl they are also the  that infect the mosquito from an infect human host. remember, they dont reproduc sexual until the get to the mosquito gut. that is, all  of reproduct insid the human host are asexual. merozoit can either keep reproduc insid the human host, or the can becom gametocyt to infect anophel mosquitoes.
which speci of plasmodium produc dormant hypnozoit (latent ) [...] which speci of plasmodium produc dormant hypnozoit (latent ) p. vivax and oval
where can hypnozoit (latent  of plasmodium) be found in the human bodi [...] where can hypnozoit (latent  of plasmodium) be found in the human bodi liver (hepatocytes) rememb that onli p. vivax and oval produc hypnozoit liver shape in oval shield of hipnotist warlord: hypnozoit in hepatocyt
which speci of plasmodium produc the most sever infect [...] which speci of plasmodium produc the most sever infect p. falciparum african overlord with fals : p. falciparum
which speci of plasmodium have an irregular pattern of fever [...] which speci of plasmodium have an irregular pattern of fever p. falciparum irregular up and down of torn shirt: irregular pattern of fever
which speci of plasmodium can caus cerebr malaria [...] which speci of plasmodium can caus cerebr malaria p. falciparum cerebr malaria consist on capillari plug of the brain from an accumul of malari pigment and mass of cell that can  in coma and death. red head dress on african warlord
which speci of plasmodium is banana-shap in the peripher blood smear [...] which speci of plasmodium is banana-shap in the peripher blood smear p. falciparum banana shape red head dress
what the treatment for non-resist strain of plasmodium spp [...] what the treatment for non-resist strain of plasmodium spp chloroquin rememb that it doesn't affect hypnozoites! primaquin does, though
what the moa of quinolid (chloroquine, primaquin and mefloquine) [...] what the moa of quinolid (chloroquine, primaquin and mefloquine) inhibit of heme polymeras in plasmodium spp inhibit of heme polymeras lead to buildup of toxic hemoglobin metabolit within the malari parasite. color bead join togeth as a polym
the caribbean, central america, the west of the panama canal, and some countri in the middl east are the onli area in which there are still [...] -sensit strain of plasmodium the caribbean, central america, the west of the panama canal, and some countri in the middl east are the onli area in which there are still chloroquin -sensit strain of plasmodium no pictur on sketchy, but comment by andrew. feel free to eras it.
which antimalari agent common is use for resist strain of plasmodium spp [...] which antimalari agent common is use for resist strain of plasmodium spp mefloquin
which patholog condit is protect against p. falciparum [...] which patholog condit is protect against p. falciparum sickl cell diseas sickl shape rbcs can't be infect by plasmodium spp. this also explain the preval of drepanocytosi in african endem area populations. how can a gene dispers that way if it isn't give it carrier an advantag for surviv
asid from mefloquine, which other quinolin agent can be use for resist strain of plasmodium spp [...] asid from mefloquine, which other quinolin agent can be use for resist strain of plasmodium spp quinidin rememb it can caus cinchon as an advers effect.
which  of plasmodium is carri by anophel in it saliva [...] which  of plasmodium is carri by anophel in it saliva sporozoit anophel on spore (fungus): sporozoit
[...] is a process of microscop vacuol of the neuron somata and surround neuropil common seen in prion diseas and spongi encephalopathy. spongiosi is a process of microscop vacuol of the neuron somata and surround neuropil common seen in prion diseas and spongi encephalopathy.
what is the pathogen  of prion [...] what is the pathogen  of prion prpsc; beta-pl sheet
[...] is a spongi encephalopathi that is acquir sporad as prion misfold in the brain. creutzfeldt-jakob diseas (cjd) is a spongi encephalopathi that is acquir sporad as prion misfold in the brain.
[...] is an inherit prion diseas that present with sever insomnia and exagger startl responses. famili fatal insomnia is an inherit prion diseas that present with sever insomnia and exagger startl responses.
which  of prion are the infective, transmissible, pathogen  of the protein [...] which  of prion are the infective, transmissible, pathogen  of the protein prp sc
[...] is the beta-pleated, infect and transmiss  of prion that is  follow the convers from the normal, predomin alpha-hel prp c protein. prp sc is the beta-pleated, infect and transmiss  of prion that is  follow the convers from the normal, predomin alpha-hel prp c protein.
[...] is the patholog  of prion that resist proteas degrad and henc facilit the convers of more normal prp c prion into the infective, transmiss . prp sc is the patholog  of prion that resist proteas degrad and henc facilit the convers of more normal prp c prion into the infective, transmiss .
[...] is a sporad type of spongi encephalopathi caus by prion that is character by rapid progress dementia. creutzfeldt-jakob diseas is a sporad type of spongi encephalopathi caus by prion that is character by rapid progress dementia. spongi encephalopathi is character by dementia, ataxia and death.
[...] is an inherit spongi encephalopathi caus by prions. gerstmann-straussler-scheink syndrom is an inherit spongi encephalopathi caus by prions. spongi encephalopathi is character by dementia, ataxia and death.
[...] is an acquir  of spongi encephalopathi that is caus by prions. kuru is an acquir  of spongi encephalopathi that is caus by prions. spongi encephalopathi is character by dementia, ataxia and death.
first aid microbiology: prion [...] are caus by the process of: the convers of a normal (predomin alpha helical) protein (term prion protein prp c ) to a beta pleat  (prp sc ). first aid microbiology: prion prion diseas are caus by the process of: the convers of a normal (predomin alpha helical) protein (term prion protein prp c ) to a beta pleat  (prp sc ).
first aid microbiology: prion prion diseas are caus by the process of: [...] . first aid microbiology: prion prion diseas are caus by the process of: the convers of a normal (predomin alpha helical) protein (term prion protein prp c ) to a beta pleat  (prp sc ) .
first aid microbiology: prion the [...]  of prion are transmiss via cns-relat tissu (iatrogen cjd) or food contamin by bse-infect anim product (variant cjd). first aid microbiology: prion the beta pleat (prp sc )  of prion are transmiss via cns-relat tissu (iatrogen cjd) or food contamin by bse-infect anim product (variant cjd).
first aid microbiology: prion the beta pleat (prp sc )  of prion are transmiss via [...] or [...] . first aid microbiology: prion the beta pleat (prp sc )  of prion are transmiss via cns-relat tissu (iatrogen cjd) or food contamin by bse-infect anim product (variant cjd) .
first aid microbiology: prion in the body, prp sc resist [...] and facilit [...] . first aid microbiology: prion in the body, prp sc resist proteas degrad and facilit the convers of still more prp c to prp sc .
first aid microbiology: prion outsid of the body, prion are resist to [...] . first aid microbiology: prion outsid of the body, prion are resist to standard steril procedures, includ autoclav .
first aid microbiology: prion accumul of [...]  in spongi encephalopathi and dementia, ataxia, and death first aid microbiology: prion accumul of prp sc  in spongi encephalopathi and dementia, ataxia, and death
first aid microbiology: prion accumul of prp sc  in [4] first aid microbiology: prion accumul of prp sc  in spongi encephalopathi and dementia, ataxia, and death
first aid microbiology: prion [...] is a kind of prion disas that  in rapid progress dementia. first aid microbiology: prion creutzfeldt-jakob diseas is a kind of prion disas that  in rapid progress dementia.
first aid microbiology: prion creutzfeldt-jakob diseas is a kind of [...] that  in [...] . first aid microbiology: prion creutzfeldt-jakob diseas is a kind of prion disas that  in rapid progress dementia .
first aid microbiology: prion [...] is a prion diseas also known as mad cow disease. first aid microbiology: prion bovin spongi encephalopathi (bse) is a prion diseas also known as mad cow disease.
first aid microbiology: prion bovin spongi encephalopathi (bse) is a [...] also known as [...] . first aid microbiology: prion bovin spongi encephalopathi (bse) is a prion diseas also known as mad cow diseas .
first aid microbiology: prion [...] is an acquir prion disaes most preval in tribal popul practic human cannibalism. first aid microbiology: prion kuru is an acquir prion disaes most preval in tribal popul practic human cannibalism.
first aid microbiology: prion kuru is [...] most preval in [...] . first aid microbiology: prion kuru is an acquir prion disaes most preval in tribal popul practic human cannib .
to diganos hookworm, [...] . to diganos hookworm, egg are found in the stool .
the major complic of ascari lumbricoid infect is [...] , which occur at the [...] . the major complic of ascari lumbricoid infect is intestin obstruct , which occur at the ileocec valv .
first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit [...] caus intestin infect with anal pruriti and is treat with bendazol or pyrantel pamoat first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit enterobius vermiculari (pinworm) caus intestin infect with anal pruriti and is treat with bendazol or pyrantel pamoat
first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit enterobius vermiculari (pinworm) caus intestin infect with anal pruriti and is treat with [...] or [...] first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit enterobius vermiculari (pinworm) caus intestin infect with anal pruriti and is treat with bendazol or pyrantel pamoat
in [...] , infect happen when femal pin worm lay egg at the anus. in enterobius vermiculari , infect happen when femal pin worm lay egg at the anus.
in enterobius vermicularis, infect happen when [...] . in enterobius vermicularis, infect happen when femal pin worm lay egg at the anus .
enterobius vermiculari typic affect [...] enterobius vermiculari typic affect children children have less inhibit of put finger in mouth.
to diagnos [...] , simpli put a piec of scotch tape near the anus in the morning. to diagnos enterobius vermiculari , simpli put a piec of scotch tape near the anus in the morning. the egg will stick to the tape and be visibl under a microscope.
to diagnos enterobius vermicularis, simpli [...] . to diagnos enterobius vermicularis, simpli put a piec of scotch tape near the anus in the morn . the egg will stick to the tape and be visibl under a microscope.
to treat enterobius vermicularis, use [...] or [...] . to treat enterobius vermicularis, use pyrantel pamoat or albendazol .
[...] is the treatment of choic for hookworm (ancyclostoma duodenal and necat americanus) and enterobius vermicularis. pyrantel pamoat is the treatment of choic for hookworm (ancyclostoma duodenal and necat americanus) and enterobius vermicularis.
pyrantel pamoat is the treatment of choic for [...] and [...] . pyrantel pamoat is the treatment of choic for hookworm (ancyclostoma duodenal and necat americanus) and enterobius vermiculari .
[...] is a speci of intestin nematod that is also refer to as pinworm . enterobius vermiculari is a speci of intestin nematod that is also refer to as pinworm .
how is pinworm ( enterobius vermiculari ) transmit [...] how is pinworm ( enterobius vermiculari ) transmit fecal-or
[...] is an intestin nematod that can be diagnos via the scotch tape test . enterobius vermiculari (pinworm) is an intestin nematod that can be diagnos via the scotch tape test . lulz, this is liter what it sound like. take scotch tape and see if you can pull off pinworm egg from the anal area.
what is the treatment for pinworm ( enterobius vermiculari ) [...] what is the treatment for pinworm ( enterobius vermiculari ) bendazol or pyrantel pamoat bend azol are use on worm becaus they are bend y.
which nematod is associ with perian pruriti [...] which nematod is associ with perian pruriti enterobius vermiculari (pinworm)
first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit [...] caus intestin infect with anemia and is treat with bendazol or pyrantel pamoat first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit ancylostoma duodenale, necat americanus (hookworms) caus intestin infect with anemia and is treat with bendazol or pyrantel pamoat
first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit ancylostoma duodenale, necat americanus (hookworms) caus intestin infect with anemia and is treat with [...] or pyrantel pamoat first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit ancylostoma duodenale, necat americanus (hookworms) caus intestin infect with anemia and is treat with bendazol or pyrantel pamoat
first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit ancylostoma duodenale, necat americanus (hookworms) caus intestin infect with anemia and is treat with bendazol or [...] first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit ancylostoma duodenale, necat americanus (hookworms) caus intestin infect with anemia and is treat with bendazol or pyrantel pamoat
first aid microbiology: protozoa rout of infect three nematod rout of infect are through the skin , these be - [...] - a ncylostoma - n ecat first aid microbiology: protozoa rout of infect three nematod rout of infect are through the skin , these be - s trongyloid - a ncylostoma - n ecat
first aid microbiology: protozoa rout of infect three nematod rout of infect are through the skin , these be - s trongyloid - [...] - n ecat first aid microbiology: protozoa rout of infect three nematod rout of infect are through the skin , these be - s trongyloid - a ncylostoma - n ecat
first aid microbiology: protozoa rout of infect three nematod rout of infect are through the skin , these be - s trongyloid - a ncylostoma - [...] first aid microbiology: protozoa rout of infect three nematod rout of infect are through the skin , these be - s trongyloid - a ncylostoma - n ecat
first aid microbiology: parasit hint [...] is associ with ancylostoma and necator. first aid microbiology: parasit hint microcyt anemia is associ with ancylostoma and necator.
first aid microbiology: parasit hint microcyt anemia is associ with [...] and necator. first aid microbiology: parasit hint microcyt anemia is associ with ancylostoma and necator.
first aid microbiology: parasit hint microcyt anemia is associ with ancylostoma and [...] . first aid microbiology: parasit hint microcyt anemia is associ with ancylostoma and necat .
which 2 speci of intestin nematod are hookworm [...] which 2 speci of intestin nematod are hookworm ancylostoma duodenale; necat americanus
[...] and necat americanus are 2 speci of intestin nematod that are refer to as hookworm . ancylostoma duodenal and necat americanus are 2 speci of intestin nematod that are refer to as hookworm .
ancylostoma duodenal and [...] are 2 speci of intestin nematod that are refer to as hookworm . ancylostoma duodenal and necat americanus are 2 speci of intestin nematod that are refer to as hookworm .
how is hookworm ( ancylostoma duodenale; necat americanus ) transmit [...] how is hookworm ( ancylostoma duodenale; necat americanus ) transmit larva penetr the skin
[...] is an intestin nematod that caus intestin infect that yield anaemia due to blood be suck from the intestin wall . hookworm is an intestin nematod that caus intestin infect that yield anaemia due to blood be suck from the intestin wall . remember, hookworm = ancylostoma duodenal &amp; necat americanus
what is the treatment for hookworm ( ancylostoma duodenale; necat americanus ) [...] what is the treatment for hookworm ( ancylostoma duodenale; necat americanus ) bendazol or pyrantel pamoat
which nematod are associ with microcyt anaemia [...] which nematod are associ with microcyt anaemia ancylostoma duodenale; necat americanus
how is the roundworm ascari lumbricoid transmit [...] how is the roundworm ascari lumbricoid transmit fecal-or
[...] is a speci of intestin nematod that is also refer to as giant roundworm . ascari lumbricoid is a speci of intestin nematod that is also refer to as giant roundworm .
what is the treatment for giant roundworm ( ascari lumbricoid ) bendazol
first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit [...] caus intestin infect with possibl obstruct at ileocec valv and is treat with bendazol first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit ascari lumbricoid (giant roundworm) caus intestin infect with possibl obstruct at ileocec valv and is treat with bendazol
first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit ascari lumbricoid (giant roundworm) caus intestin infect with possibl obstruct at ileocec valv and is treat with [...] first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit ascari lumbricoid (giant roundworm) caus intestin infect with possibl obstruct at ileocec valv and is treat with bendazol
ascari lumbricoid is transmit by [...] . ascari lumbricoid is transmit by eat egg that are in contamin food or water .
onc [...] egg hatch in the small intestine, larva migrat through the gut wall, into the blood stream, and final to the lungs. onc ascari lumbricoid egg hatch in the small intestine, larva migrat through the gut wall, into the blood stream, and final to the lungs.
onc ascari lumbricoid egg hatch in the [...] , larva migrat [...] and final to the [...] . onc ascari lumbricoid egg hatch in the small intestin , larva migrat through the gut wall, into the blood stream, and final to the lung .
onc in the lungs, ascari lumbricoid go through [...] , into [...] , and there ascend [...] , where they are [...] . onc in the lungs, ascari lumbricoid go through the capillari , into the alveoli , and there ascend into the bronchus , where they are swallow .
after cough up the egg and swallowing, ascari lumbricoid matur into adult in [...] . there, they multipli and are pass into the fece to restart the cycl of infection. after cough up the egg and swallowing, ascari lumbricoid matur into adult in the small intestin . there, they multipli and are pass into the fece to restart the cycl of infection.
after cough up the egg and swallowing, ascari lumbricoid matur into adult in the small intestine. there, they [...] and [...] . after cough up the egg and swallowing, ascari lumbricoid matur into adult in the small intestine. there, they multipli and are pass into the fece to restart the cycl of infect .
[...] infect can be asymptomatic, or present with sign of malnutrit or respiratori symptoms. ascari lumbricoid infect can be asymptomatic, or present with sign of malnutrit or respiratori symptoms.
ascari lumbricoid infect can be asymptomatic, or present with [...] . ascari lumbricoid infect can be asymptomatic, or present with sign of malnutrit or respiratori symptom .
of all the worm that migrat into the lungs, [...] is most like to caus respiratori symptoms. of all the worm that migrat into the lungs, ascari lumbricoid is most like to caus respiratori symptoms.
the major complic of ascari lumbricoid infect is [...] , which occur at the [...] . the major complic of ascari lumbricoid infect is intestin obstruct , which occur at the ileocec valv .
ascari lumbricoid is diagnos via [...] and [...] . ascari lumbricoid is diagnos via egg in the fece and eosinophilia .
ascari lumbricoid is treat with [...] , which work by caus microtubul dysfunction, make the worm immobile. ascari lumbricoid is treat with albendazol , which work by caus microtubul dysfunction, make the worm immobile.
ascari lumbricoid is treat with albendazole, which work by [...] . ascari lumbricoid is treat with albendazole, which work by caus microtubul dysfunction, make the worm immobil .
first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit [...] caus intestin infect with vomiting, diarrhea, epigastr pain (like a peptic ulcer) and is treat with ivermectin or bendazol first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit strongyloid stercorali (threadworm) caus intestin infect with vomiting, diarrhea, epigastr pain (like a peptic ulcer) and is treat with ivermectin or bendazol
first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit strongyloid stercorali (threadworm) caus intestin infect with vomiting, diarrhea, epigastr pain (like a peptic ulcer) and is treat with [...] or bendazol first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit strongyloid stercorali (threadworm) caus intestin infect with vomiting, diarrhea, epigastr pain (like a peptic ulcer) and is treat with ivermectin or bendazol
first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit strongyloid stercorali (threadworm) caus intestin infect with vomiting, diarrhea, epigastr pain (like a peptic ulcer) and is treat with ivermectin or [...] first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit strongyloid stercorali (threadworm) caus intestin infect with vomiting, diarrhea, epigastr pain (like a peptic ulcer) and is treat with ivermectin or bendazol
first aid microbiology: protozoa rout of infect three nematod rout of infect are through the skin , these be - [...] - a ncylostoma - n ecat first aid microbiology: protozoa rout of infect three nematod rout of infect are through the skin , these be - s trongyloid - a ncylostoma - n ecat
first aid microbiology: protozoa rout of infect three nematod rout of infect are through the skin , these be - s trongyloid - [...] - n ecat first aid microbiology: protozoa rout of infect three nematod rout of infect are through the skin , these be - s trongyloid - a ncylostoma - n ecat
first aid microbiology: protozoa rout of infect three nematod rout of infect are through the skin , these be - s trongyloid - a ncylostoma - [...] first aid microbiology: protozoa rout of infect three nematod rout of infect are through the skin , these be - s trongyloid - a ncylostoma - n ecat
strongyloid stercorali larva enter via [...] . strongyloid stercorali larva enter via the sole of the feet .
the rout of strongyloid stercorali is [...] . the rout of strongyloid stercorali is feet -- blood -- brochial tree -- swallow -- matur in gi tract . similar to other intestin nematod
strongyloid stercorali can also propag by [...] , in which the egg hatch in the intestin wall, and the larva make their way through the bloodstream to the lung again. strongyloid stercorali can also propag by autoinfect it host , in which the egg hatch in the intestin wall, and the larva make their way through the bloodstream to the lung again.
strongyloid stercorali can also propag by autoinfect it host, in which the egg [...] , and the larva [...] . strongyloid stercorali can also propag by autoinfect it host, in which the egg hatch in the intestin wall , and the larva make their way through the bloodstream to the lung again .
if the patient is immunocompromised, [...] infect can lead to hyperinfect and dissemin of the worm due to inflamm of the intestin wall. if the patient is immunocompromised, strongyloid stercorali infect can lead to hyperinfect and dissemin of the worm due to inflamm of the intestin wall.
if the patient is immunocompromised, strongyloid stercorali infect can lead to [...] due to [...] . if the patient is immunocompromised, strongyloid stercorali infect can lead to hyperinfect and dissemin of the worm due to inflamm of the intestin wall .
to diagnos strongyloid stercoralis, [...] and [...] . to diagnos strongyloid stercoralis, find larva in stool and eosinophilia . egg are laid into the intestin wall, so are not pass into the stool. intsead will onli find larvae.
first aid microbiology: htlv-1 htlv-1 dermat (the cutan lesion) can  in superinfect with [...] first aid microbiology: htlv-1 htlv-1 dermat (the cutan lesion) can  in superinfect with strongyloid stercorali
how is strongyloid stercorali transmit [...] how is strongyloid stercorali transmit larva in the soil penetr the skin
[...] is an intestin nematod that caus an intestin infect that present with vomiting, diarrhea and epigastr pain that may mimic peptic ulcer-lik pain . strongyloid stercorali is an intestin nematod that caus an intestin infect that present with vomiting, diarrhea and epigastr pain that may mimic peptic ulcer-lik pain .
first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit [...] caus intestin infect where larva encyst in strait muscl and is treat with bendazol first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit trichinella spirali caus intestin infect where larva encyst in strait muscl and is treat with bendazol
first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit trichinella spirali caus intestin infect where larva encyst in strait muscl and is treat with [...] first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit trichinella spirali caus intestin infect where larva encyst in strait muscl and is treat with bendazol
first aid microbiology: protozoa rout of infect four nematod rout of infect are through ingest , these be - [...] - a scari - t oxocara - t richinella first aid microbiology: protozoa rout of infect four nematod rout of infect are through ingest , these be - e nterobius - a scari - t oxocara - t richinella
first aid microbiology: protozoa rout of infect four nematod rout of infect are through ingest , these be - e nterobius - [...] - t oxocara - t richinella first aid microbiology: protozoa rout of infect four nematod rout of infect are through ingest , these be - e nterobius - a scari - t oxocara - t richinella
first aid microbiology: protozoa rout of infect four nematod rout of infect are through ingest , these be - e nterobius - a scari - [...] - t richinella first aid microbiology: protozoa rout of infect four nematod rout of infect are through ingest , these be - e nterobius - a scari - t oxocara - t richinella
first aid microbiology: protozoa rout of infect four nematod rout of infect are through ingest , these be - e nterobius - a scari - t oxocara - [...] first aid microbiology: protozoa rout of infect four nematod rout of infect are through ingest , these be - e nterobius - a scari - t oxocara - t richinella
first aid microbiology: parasit hint [...] and periorbit edema are associ with trichinella spiralis. first aid microbiology: parasit hint myalgia and periorbit edema are associ with trichinella spiralis.
first aid microbiology: parasit hint myalgia and [...] are associ with trichinella spiralis. first aid microbiology: parasit hint myalgia and periorbit edema are associ with trichinella spiralis.
first aid microbiology: parasit hint myalgia and periorbit edema are associ with [...] . first aid microbiology: parasit hint myalgia and periorbit edema are associ with trichinella spirali .
trichinella spirali is found in [...] . trichinella spirali is found in undercook meat, such as pork .
infect with [...] caus symptom such as fever, vomiting, and periorbit edema. infect with trichinella spirali caus symptom such as fever, vomiting, and periorbit edema.
infect with trichinella spirali caus symptom such as [...] , [...] , and [...] . infect with trichinella spirali caus symptom such as fever , vomit , and periorbit edema .
trichinella spirali also caus sever [...] sinc after ingest of cysts, the cyst develop into larvae, enter bloodstream, and  cyst within the striat muscl cell caus inflammation. trichinella spirali also caus sever myalgia (muscl ache) sinc after ingest of cysts, the cyst develop into larvae, enter bloodstream, and  cyst within the striat muscl cell caus inflammation.
trichinella spirali also caus sever myalgia (muscl ache) sinc [...] caus [...] . trichinella spirali also caus sever myalgia (muscl ache) sinc after ingest of cysts, the cyst develop into larvae, enter bloodstream, and  cyst within the striat muscl cell caus inflamm .
trichinella spirali is treat with [...] . trichinella spirali is treat with albendazol .
[...] is a genus of nematod that is contract from ingest of undercook game/pork. trichinella is a genus of nematod that is contract from ingest of undercook game/pork.
first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit [...] caus intestin infect with anemia and is treat with bendazol or pyrantel pamoat first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit ancylostoma duodenale, necat americanus (hookworms) caus intestin infect with anemia and is treat with bendazol or pyrantel pamoat
first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit ancylostoma duodenale, necat americanus (hookworms) caus intestin infect with anemia and is treat with [...] or pyrantel pamoat first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit ancylostoma duodenale, necat americanus (hookworms) caus intestin infect with anemia and is treat with bendazol or pyrantel pamoat
first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit ancylostoma duodenale, necat americanus (hookworms) caus intestin infect with anemia and is treat with bendazol or [...] first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit ancylostoma duodenale, necat americanus (hookworms) caus intestin infect with anemia and is treat with bendazol or pyrantel pamoat
[...] and [...] are two type of hookworm found in the southern usa. ancyclostoma duodenal and necat americanus are two type of hookworm found in the southern usa.
ancyclostoma duodenal and necat americanus are [...] found in [...] . ancyclostoma duodenal and necat americanus are two type of hookworm found in the southern usa .
anyclosotoma duodenal and necat americanus infect the host by [...] , as the hookworm larva [...] . anyclosotoma duodenal and necat americanus infect the host by walk barefoot , as the hookworm larva penetr skin of sole of feet .
[...] is the treatment of choic for hookworm (ancyclostoma duodenal and necat americanus) and enterobius vermicularis. pyrantel pamoat is the treatment of choic for hookworm (ancyclostoma duodenal and necat americanus) and enterobius vermicularis.
pyrantel pamoat is the treatment of choic for [...] and [...] . pyrantel pamoat is the treatment of choic for hookworm (ancyclostoma duodenal and necat americanus) and enterobius vermiculari .
infect with dracunculus medinensi happen by [...] with [...] , which are [...] . infect with dracunculus medinensi happen by drink contamin water with copepod , which are crustacean found in the sea and fresh water .
copepod contain [...] . copepod contain dracunculus medinensi larva . they are the intermedi host of the parasite.
after ingest dracunculus medinensi larvae, they [...] , and the copepod die. after ingest dracunculus medinensi larvae, they penetr the host stomach and intestin wall , and the copepod die.
after matur in the intestin cavity, femal dracunculus medineni [...] and produc [...] . after matur in the intestin cavity, femal dracunculus medineni migrat to the surfac of the skin (usual in lower extremities) and produc a pain skin ulcer .
to diagnos dracunculus medinensi infection, [...] . to diagnos dracunculus medinensi infection, worm will be seen come out of the skin .
to treat dracunculus medinensis, [...] . this process can be made faster with [...] . to treat dracunculus medinensis, slowli extract the worm with a small stick . this process can be made faster with metronidazol .
first aid microbiology: protozoa rout of infect three nematod rout of infect are through their bite , these be - [...] - o nchocerca volvulus - w ucheria bancrofti first aid microbiology: protozoa rout of infect three nematod rout of infect are through their bite , these be - l oa loa - o nchocerca volvulus - w ucheria bancrofti
first aid microbiology: protozoa rout of infect three nematod rout of infect are through their bite , these be - l oa loa - [...] - w ucheria bancrofti first aid microbiology: protozoa rout of infect three nematod rout of infect are through their bite , these be - l oa loa - o nchocerca volvulus - w ucheria bancrofti
first aid microbiology: protozoa rout of infect three nematod rout of infect are through their bite , these be - l oa loa - o nchocerca volvulus - [...] first aid microbiology: protozoa rout of infect three nematod rout of infect are through their bite , these be - l oa loa - o nchocerca volvulus - w ucheria bancrofti
[...] caus elephantiasis, which is a complic of long stand lower extrem lymphodema. wuchereria bancrofti caus elephantiasis, which is a complic of long stand lower extrem lymphodema.
wuchereria bancrofti caus [...] , which is a complic of [...] . wuchereria bancrofti caus elephantiasi , which is a complic of long stand lower extrem lymphodema .
in elephantiasis, wuchereria bancrofti goe into [...] and caus disrupt of the lymphat system. in elephantiasis, wuchereria bancrofti goe into the lymphat and caus disrupt of the lymphat system.
in elephantiasis, wuchereria bancrofti goe into the lymphat and caus [...] in elephantiasis, wuchereria bancrofti goe into the lymphat and caus disrupt of the lymphat system.
[...] is also character by coughing, sinc microfilaria can travel to the lungs, caus a hypersensitivi reaction. wuchereria bancrofti is also character by coughing, sinc microfilaria can travel to the lungs, caus a hypersensitivi reaction.
wuchereria bancrofti is also character by [...] , sinc [...] . wuchereria bancrofti is also character by cough , sinc microfilaria can travel to the lungs, caus a hypersensitivi reaction .
the vector for wuchereria bancrofti infect is a [...] . the vector for wuchereria bancrofti infect is a femal mosquito .
when mosquito with wuchereria bancrofti bite, the larva [...] and [...] , where they [...] . when mosquito with wuchereria bancrofti bite, the larva penetr the skin and enter the lymphat , where they produc microfilaria .
to diagnos wuchereria bancrofti, [...] . to diagnos wuchereria bancrofti, a thick blood smear is per to see the organ .
to treat wuchereria bancrofti, [...] . to treat wuchereria bancrofti, diethyl carbamazin is use .
[...] is a complic of wucheria bancrofti infect that involv a ag of lymphat vessel . elephantiasi is a complic of wucheria bancrofti infect that involv a ag of lymphat vessel . take 9 month to 1 year after an infecti bite to becom symptomatic.
first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit [...] caus ag of lymphat vessel and is treat with diethylcarbamazin first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit wuchereria bancrofti caus ag of lymphat vessel and is treat with diethylcarbamazin
first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit wuchereria bancrofti caus ag of lymphat vessel and is treat with [...] first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit wuchereria bancrofti caus ag of lymphat vessel and is treat with diethylcarbamazin
what is the caus of elephantiasi [...] what is the caus of elephantiasi wuchereria bancrofti
how is elephantiasi ( wuchereria bancrofti ) transmit [...] how is elephantiasi ( wuchereria bancrofti ) transmit femal mosquito bite
which vector transmit onchocerca volvulus (river blindness) [...] which vector transmit onchocerca volvulus (river blindness) black fli
what is the etiolog of river blind [...] what is the etiolog of river blind onchocerca volvulus
[...] is a tissu nematod associ with caus hyperpig skin and river blind . onchocerca volvulus is a tissu nematod associ with caus hyperpig skin and river blind . black fli bite; black skin nodules; "black" sight. allerg reaction to the microfilaria is possible.
what is the treatment for onchocerca volvulus infect (e.g. river blindness) [...] what is the treatment for onchocerca volvulus infect (e.g. river blindness) ivermectin iver mectin is given for r iver blindness.
first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit [...] caus skin changes, loss of elast fibers, river blind and is treat with ivermectin first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit onchocerca volvulus caus skin changes, loss of elast fibers, river blind and is treat with ivermectin
first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit onchocerca volvulus caus skin changes, loss of elast fibers, river blind and is treat with [...] first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit onchocerca volvulus caus skin changes, loss of elast fibers, river blind and is treat with ivermectin
onchocerca volvulus is often found around [...] . onchocerca volvulus is often found around river in africa, central america, and south america .
to begin infect of onchocerca volvulus, the black fli [...] . these then [...] . to begin infect of onchocerca volvulus, the black fli bite the human host and deposit larva in the skin . these then penetr deeper in the skin and matur into adult .
adult [...] produc microfilariae, which then migrat throughout the body. adult onchocerca volvulus produc microfilariae, which then migrat throughout the body.
adult onchocerca volvulus produc [...] , which then [...] . adult onchocerca volvulus produc microfilaria , which then migrat throughout the bodi .
the sign of [...] are scatter prutic papul which can later becom hyperpig and hypopig spot can also occur (usual on the shin of older patients). the sign of onchocerca volvulus infect are scatter prutic papul which can later becom hyperpig and hypopig spot can also occur (usual on the shin of older patients).
the sign of onchocerca volvulus infect are [...] and [...] . the sign of onchocerca volvulus infect are scatter prutic papul which can later becom hyperpig and hypopig spot can also occur (usual on the shin of older patients) .
in some case of [...] infection, the microfilaria migrat to the eyes, caus blindness. in some case of onchocerca volvulus infection, the microfilaria migrat to the eyes, caus blindness.
in some case of onchocerca volvulus infection, the [...] migrat to the [...] , caus [...] . in some case of onchocerca volvulus infection, the microfilaria migrat to the eye , caus blind .
the treatment for onchocerca volvulus is [...] . the treatment for onchocerca volvulus is ivermectin .
first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit [...] caus inflamm and damag to intestin wall, common infect the heart/liver/cn and is treat with bendazol first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit toxocara cani caus inflamm and damag to intestin wall, common infect the heart/liver/cn and is treat with bendazol
first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit toxocara cani caus inflamm and damag to intestin wall, common infect the heart/liver/cn and is treat with [...] first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit toxocara cani caus inflamm and damag to intestin wall, common infect the heart/liver/cn and is treat with bendazol
[...] is transmit via food contamin with dog or cat feces. toxocara cani is transmit via food contamin with dog or cat feces.
toxocara cani is transmit via [...] . toxocara cani is transmit via food contamin with dog or cat fece .
when [...] get insid the human, they never actual matur out of the larva phase. instead, they continu to circul the bodi for years. when toxocara cani larva get insid the human, they never actual matur out of the larva phase. instead, they continu to circul the bodi for years.
when toxocara cani larva get insid the human, they never actual [...] . instead, they [...] . when toxocara cani larva get insid the human, they never actual matur out of the larva phase . instead, they continu to circul the bodi for year .
becaus [...] can circul in the bodi for years, it is also known as viscer larva migrans. becaus toxocara cani larva can circul in the bodi for years, it is also known as viscer larva migrans.
becaus toxocara cani larva can circul in the bodi for years, it is also known as [...] . becaus toxocara cani larva can circul in the bodi for years, it is also known as viscer larva migran .
if toxocara cani larva get to the eyes, it can also caus [...] . if toxocara cani larva get to the eyes, it can also caus blind .
toxocara cani also is character by [...] . toxocara cani also is character by eosinophilia .
toxocara cani is treat with [...] . toxocara cani is treat with albendazol .
what is the etiolog of viscer larva migran [...] what is the etiolog of viscer larva migran toxocara cani
how is viscer larva migran ( toxocara cani ) transmit [...] how is viscer larva migran ( toxocara cani ) transmit fecal-or
[...] is a tissu nematod that caus viscer larva migrans. toxocara cani is a tissu nematod that caus viscer larva migrans.
the [...] are refer to as calabar swellings. the local swell of loa loa infect are refer to as calabar swellings.
the local swell of loa loa infect are refer to as [...] . the local swell of loa loa infect are refer to as calabar swell .
asid from [...] , anoth way to diagnos loa loa infect is to [...] . asid from see the worm crawl across the eye , anoth way to diagnos loa loa infect is to per a blood smear, where microfilaria will be seen .
asid from see the worm crawl across the eye, anoth way to diagnos [...] is to per a blood smear, where microfilaria will be seen. asid from see the worm crawl across the eye, anoth way to diagnos loa loa infect is to per a blood smear, where microfilaria will be seen.
the adult [...] worm can migrat to the eye, caus transient inflammt and edema after crawl under the conjunctiva of the eye. the adult loa loa worm can migrat to the eye, caus transient inflammt and edema after crawl under the conjunctiva of the eye. thus, it is also call african eye worm.
the adult loa loa worm can migrat to the eye, caus [...] . the adult loa loa worm can migrat to the eye, caus transient inflammt and edema after crawl under the conjunctiva of the eye . thus, it is also call african eye worm.
as the [...] migrat through subcutan tissu of it host, it caus transient angioedema. as the loa loa worm migrat through subcutan tissu of it host, it caus transient angioedema.
as the loa loa worm migrat through [...] , it caus [...] . as the loa loa worm migrat through subcutan tissu of it host , it caus transient angioedema .
first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit [...] caus swell in the skin with worm present in the conjunctiva and is treat with diethylcarbamazin first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit loa loa caus swell in the skin with worm present in the conjunctiva and is treat with diethylcarbamazin
first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit loa loa caus swell in the skin with worm present in the conjunctiva and is treat with [...] first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit loa loa caus swell in the skin with worm present in the conjunctiva and is treat with diethylcarbamazin
loa loa can be treat by [...] and [...] . loa loa can be treat by diethylcarbamazin and albendazol .
loa loa is transmit by [...] . loa loa is transmit by deer fli . also hors fli and mango flies.
how is loa loa transmit [...] how is loa loa transmit deer fly; hors fly; mango fli
what is the treatment for loa loa [...] what is the treatment for loa loa diethylcarbamazin and also albendaz.
first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit taenia solium is treat by [...] , and if it reach the brain ( neurocysticerosi ) can be treat by praziquantel first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit taenia solium is treat by albendazol , and if it reach the brain ( neurocysticerosi ) can be treat by praziquantel neurocysticercosis/cysticercosi are caus by taenia
first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit taenia solium is treat by albendazol , and if it reach the brain ( neurocysticerosi ) can be treat by [...] first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit taenia solium is treat by albendazol , and if it reach the brain ( neurocysticerosi ) can be treat by praziquantel neurocysticercosis/cysticercosi are caus by taenia
first aid microbiology: parasit hint [...] and seizur are associ with taenia solium (neurocysticercosis). first aid microbiology: parasit hint brain cyst and seizur are associ with taenia solium (neurocysticercosis).
first aid microbiology: parasit hint brain cyst and [...] are associ with taenia solium (neurocysticercosis). first aid microbiology: parasit hint brain cyst and seizur are associ with taenia solium (neurocysticercosis).
first aid microbiology: parasit hint brain cyst and seizur are associ with [...] . first aid microbiology: parasit hint brain cyst and seizur are associ with taenia solium (neurocysticercosis) .
how is taenia solium transmit [...] how is taenia solium transmit ingest of larva encyst in undercook pork; ingest of egg basic just rememb "via ingestion" and "undercook pork" for the larvae.
[...] and neurocysticercosi are 2 complic of infect with the egg of taenia solium . cysticercosi and neurocysticercosi are 2 complic of infect with the egg of taenia solium . this is veri important. onli the egg of taenia solium caus cysticercosis. the larva caus intestin infection.
cysticercosi and [...] are 2 complic of infect with the egg of taenia solium . cysticercosi and neurocysticercosi are 2 complic of infect with the egg of taenia solium . this is veri important. onli the egg of taenia solium caus cysticercosis. the larva caus intestin infection.
what is the etiolog of cysticercosi and neurocysticercosi [...] what is the etiolog of cysticercosi and neurocysticercosi the egg of taenia solium
what is the treatment for intestin infect caus by the larva of taenia solium [...] what is the treatment for intestin infect caus by the larva of taenia solium albendazol
what is the treatment for cysticercosi (egg of taenia solium ) [...] what is the treatment for cysticercosi (egg of taenia solium ) praziquantel
which cestod (tapeworm) is associ with brain cyst and seizur [...] which cestod (tapeworm) is associ with brain cyst and seizur taenia solium (cysticercosis)
first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit diphyllobothrium latum can be treat by [...] first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit diphyllobothrium latum can be treat by praziquantel diphyllobothrium latum is transmit by ingest of larva in raw fish
first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit [...] caus vitamin b12 defici and is treat with praziquantel first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit diphyllobothrium latum caus vitamin b12 defici and is treat with praziquantel
first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit diphyllobothrium latum caus vitamin b12 defici and is treat with [...] first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit diphyllobothrium latum caus vitamin b12 defici and is treat with praziquantel
first aid microbiology: parasit hint vitamin [...] defici is associ with diphyllobothrium latum. first aid microbiology: parasit hint vitamin b 12 defici is associ with diphyllobothrium latum.
first aid microbiology: parasit hint vitamin b 12 defici is associ with [...] . first aid microbiology: parasit hint vitamin b 12 defici is associ with diphyllobothrium latum .
[...] is a fish tapeworm, which caus diarrhea (gi outcome) and is associ with a b12 defici and megaloblast anemia (vitamin deficiency/associ pathology). diphyllobothrium latum is a fish tapeworm, which caus diarrhea (gi outcome) and is associ with a b12 defici and megaloblast anemia (vitamin deficiency/associ pathology).
diphyllobothrium latum is a fish tapeworm, which caus [...] (gi outcome) and is associ with a b12 defici and megaloblast anemia (vitamin deficiency/associ pathology). diphyllobothrium latum is a fish tapeworm, which caus diarrhea (gi outcome) and is associ with a b12 defici and megaloblast anemia (vitamin deficiency/associ pathology).
diphyllobothrium latum is a fish tapeworm, which caus diarrhea (gi outcome) and is associ with a [...] (vitamin deficiency/associ pathology). diphyllobothrium latum is a fish tapeworm, which caus diarrhea (gi outcome) and is associ with a b12 defici and megaloblast anemia (vitamin deficiency/associ pathology).
[...] is a tapeworm that common caus vitamin b12 defici through consumpt of vitamin b12 and damag to the termin ileum. diphyllobothrium latum is a tapeworm that common caus vitamin b12 defici through consumpt of vitamin b12 and damag to the termin ileum. remember, vitamin b12 is absorb at the termin ileum.
[...] is a tapeworm that can caus vitamin b12 (cobalamin) defici through malabsorption. diphyllobothrium latum is a tapeworm that can caus vitamin b12 (cobalamin) defici through malabsorption.
which vitamin defici is caus by diphyllobothrium latum [...] which vitamin defici is caus by diphyllobothrium latum vitamin b12 the worm compet with vitamin b12 in the intestines. caus megaloblast anaemia.
what is the treatment for diphyllobothrium latum infect [...] what is the treatment for diphyllobothrium latum infect praziquantel
first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit [...] caus hydatid cyst in the liver which can lead to anaphylaxi if antigen are releas and is treat with albendazol first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit echinococcus granulosus caus hydatid cyst in the liver which can lead to anaphylaxi if antigen are releas and is treat with albendazol
first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit echinococcus granulosus caus hydatid cyst in the liver which can lead to anaphylaxi if antigen are releas and is treat with [...] first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit echinococcus granulosus caus hydatid cyst in the liver which can lead to anaphylaxi if antigen are releas and is treat with albendazol
first aid microbiology: parasit hint [...] are associ with echinococcus granulosus. first aid microbiology: parasit hint liver (hyatid) cyst are associ with echinococcus granulosus.
first aid microbiology: parasit hint liver (hyatid) cyst are associ with [...] . first aid microbiology: parasit hint liver (hyatid) cyst are associ with echinococcus granulosus .
echinococcus granulosus is a cestode, which can be transmit through dog feces, with [...] as the intermitten hosts. echinococcus granulosus is a cestode, which can be transmit through dog feces, with sheep as the intermitten hosts.
[...] is a cestode, which can be transmit through dog feces, with sheep as the intermitten hosts. echinococcus granulosus is a cestode, which can be transmit through dog feces, with sheep as the intermitten hosts.
echinococcus granulosus is a cestode, which can be transmit through [...] , with sheep as the intermitten hosts. echinococcus granulosus is a cestode, which can be transmit through dog fece , with sheep as the intermitten hosts.
[...] from echinococcus granulosus (cestode) dure remov can lead to anaphylaxis. ruptur cyst from echinococcus granulosus (cestode) dure remov can lead to anaphylaxis.
ruptur cyst from [...] (cestode) dure remov can lead to anaphylaxis. ruptur cyst from echinococcus granulosus (cestode) dure remov can lead to anaphylaxis.
ruptur cyst from echinococcus granulosus (cestode) dure remov can lead to [...] . ruptur cyst from echinococcus granulosus (cestode) dure remov can lead to anaphylaxi .
how is echinococcus granulosus transmit [...] how is echinococcus granulosus transmit ingest of egg from dog fece
[...] is a cestod that yield hydatid cyst in the liver, therebi caus anaphylaxi if the antigen are released. echinococcus granulosus is a cestod that yield hydatid cyst in the liver, therebi caus anaphylaxi if the antigen are released. surgeon kill the cyst by inject ethanol befor removal.
which cestod (tapeworm) is associ with liver hydatid cyst [...] which cestod (tapeworm) is associ with liver hydatid cyst echinococcus granulosus
first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit [...] caus liver and spleen enlargement, fibrosis, inflamm or a chronic infect that lead to squamous cell carcinoma of the bladder and is treat with praziquantel first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit schistosoma caus liver and spleen enlargement, fibrosis, inflamm or a chronic infect that lead to squamous cell carcinoma of the bladder and is treat with praziquantel
first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit schistosoma caus liver and spleen enlargement, fibrosis, inflamm or a chronic infect that lead to squamous cell carcinoma of the bladder and is treat with [...] first aid pharmacology: antimicrobi - antiparasit schistosoma caus liver and spleen enlargement, fibrosis, inflamm or a chronic infect that lead to squamous cell carcinoma of the bladder and is treat with praziquantel
first aid microbiology: parasit hint [...] and squamous cell bladder cancer are associ with schistosoma haematobium. first aid microbiology: parasit hint hematuria and squamous cell bladder cancer are associ with schistosoma haematobium.
first aid microbiology: parasit hint hematuria and [...] are associ with schistosoma haematobium. first aid microbiology: parasit hint hematuria and squamous cell bladder cancer are associ with schistosoma haematobium.
first aid microbiology: parasit hint hematuria and squamous cell bladder cancer are associ with [...] . first aid microbiology: parasit hint hematuria and squamous cell bladder cancer are associ with schistosoma haematobium .
first aid microbiology: parasit hint [...] is associ with schistosoma mansoni and schistosoma japonicum. first aid microbiology: parasit hint portal hypertens is associ with schistosoma mansoni and schistosoma japonicum.
first aid microbiology: parasit hint portal hypertens is associ with [...] and schistosoma japonicum. first aid microbiology: parasit hint portal hypertens is associ with schistosoma mansoni and schistosoma japonicum.
first aid microbiology: parasit hint portal hypertens is associ with schistosoma mansoni and [...] . first aid microbiology: parasit hint portal hypertens is associ with schistosoma mansoni and schistosoma japonicum .
oncogen microbe: schistosoma haematobium - what patholog is it most associ with what is the associ cancer bladder cancer (squamous cell)
bladder cancer (squamous cell) what is the assocci oncogen microb schistosoma haematobium - what patholog is it most associ with
what cancer is associ with schistosoma hematobium [...] what cancer is associ with schistosoma hematobium squamous cell carcinoma of the bladder
which infecti agent is a risk factor for develop squamous cell carcinoma, especi in middl eastern/egyptian men [...] which infecti agent is a risk factor for develop squamous cell carcinoma, especi in middl eastern/egyptian men schistosoma hematobium
how is schistosoma transmit [...] how is schistosoma transmit via snails; cercaria penetr the skin
[...] is a trematod that caus liver and spleen granuloma , fibrosi and inflamm . schistosoma spp. is a trematod that caus liver and spleen granuloma , fibrosi and inflamm .
[...] is a speci of schistosoma that can lead to squamous cell carcinoma of the bladder if there is chronic infection. schistosoma haematobium is a speci of schistosoma that can lead to squamous cell carcinoma of the bladder if there is chronic infection.
which speci of schistosoma is associ with caus squamous cell carcinoma if there is a chronic infect [...] which speci of schistosoma is associ with caus squamous cell carcinoma if there is a chronic infect schistosoma haematobium
which cancer is a possibl complic of chronic schistosoma haematobium infect [...] which cancer is a possibl complic of chronic schistosoma haematobium infect squamous cell carcinoma of the bladder present with painless hematuria .
what is the treatment for schistosomiasi ( schistosoma ) [...] what is the treatment for schistosomiasi ( schistosoma ) praziquantel
which trematod (fluke) is associ with hematuria and bladder cancer [...] which trematod (fluke) is associ with hematuria and bladder cancer schistosoma haematobium
which trematod (fluke) is associ with portal hypertens [...] which trematod (fluke) is associ with portal hypertens schistosoma mansoni; schistosoma japonicum schistosoma is often call a liver fluke .
what is the treatment for schistosoma [...] what is the treatment for schistosoma praziquantel
which cancer is associ with schistosoma haematobium [...] which cancer is associ with schistosoma haematobium squamous cell carcinoma of the bladder
s. mansoni and s. japonicum are schitosom that caus [...] s. mansoni and s. japonicum are schitosom that caus portal hypertens and liver cirrhosis, lead to jaundic
[...] are schitosom that caus portal hypertens and liver cirrhosis, lead to jaundic s. mansoni and s. japonicum are schitosom that caus portal hypertens and liver cirrhosis, lead to jaundic
s. mansoni and s. japonicum are [...] that caus portal hypertens and liver cirrhosis, lead to jaundic s. mansoni and s. japonicum are schitosom that caus portal hypertens and liver cirrhosis, lead to jaundic
s. japonicum (schistosome) has a [...] spine on eggs. s. japonicum (schistosome) has a small or absent spine on eggs.
[...] (schistosome) has a small or absent spine on eggs. s. japonicum (schistosome) has a small or absent spine on eggs.
a [...] is a featur in the egg of s. mansoni (schistosome) a larg later spine is a featur in the egg of s. mansoni (schistosome)
a larg later spine is a featur in the egg of [...] (schistosome) a larg later spine is a featur in the egg of s. mansoni (schistosome)
snail are the intermedi host for [...] (trematode) snail are the intermedi host for clonorchi sinesnsi (trematode)
[...] are the intermedi host for clonorchi sinesnsi (trematode) snail are the intermedi host for clonorchi sinesnsi (trematode)
oncogen microbe: liver fluke (clonorchi sinensis) what is the associ cancer cholangiocarcinoma
cholangiocarcinoma what is the assocci oncogen microb liver fluke (clonorchi sinensis)
[...] is a liver fluke that infect the biliari tract, increas the risk of gallstones, cholang and cholangiosarcoma. clonorchi sinensi is a liver fluke that infect the biliari tract, increas the risk of gallstones, cholang and cholangiosarcoma. endem in china, korea and vietnam
which liver fluke is associ with obstruct jaundic [...] which liver fluke is associ with obstruct jaundic clonorchi sinensi
how is clonorchi sinensi transmit [...] how is clonorchi sinensi transmit undercook fish
[...] is a speci of trematod that caus biliari tract inflamm and subsequ at of pigment gallston . clonorchi sinensi is a speci of trematod that caus biliari tract inflamm and subsequ at of pigment gallston .
which cancer is associ with clonorchi sinensi infect [...] which cancer is associ with clonorchi sinensi infect cholangiocarcinoma
what is the treatment for clonorchi sinensi infect [...] what is the treatment for clonorchi sinensi infect praziquantel
which cancer is associ with clonorchi sinensi (liver fluke) [...] which cancer is associ with clonorchi sinensi (liver fluke) cholangiocarcinoma
first aid antiparasites: clonorchi sinensi can be treat with [...] first aid antiparasites: clonorchi sinensi can be treat with praziquantel
first aid microbiology: parasit hint [...] and cholangiocarcinoma are associ with clonorchi sinensis. first aid microbiology: parasit hint biliari tract diseas and cholangiocarcinoma are associ with clonorchi sinensis.
first aid microbiology: parasit hint biliari tract diseas and [...] are associ with clonorchi sinensis. first aid microbiology: parasit hint biliari tract diseas and cholangiocarcinoma are associ with clonorchi sinensis.
first aid microbiology: parasit hint biliari tract diseas and cholangiocarcinoma are associ with [...] . first aid microbiology: parasit hint biliari tract diseas and cholangiocarcinoma are associ with clonorchi sinensi .
snail are the intermedi host for [...] (trematode) snail are the intermedi host for clonorchi sinesnsi (trematode)
[...] are the intermedi host for clonorchi sinesnsi (trematode) snail are the intermedi host for clonorchi sinesnsi (trematode)
first aid antiparasites: paragonimus westermani is a trematod that can be treat with [...] . first aid antiparasites: paragonimus westermani is a trematod that can be treat with praziquantel .
cutan larva migran - viscer larva migran - hookworm toxocara cani
what is the etiolog for guinea worm diseas dracunculus medinensi
for each of the schistom spp., where do the adult worm resid japonicum - vein drain small intestin mansoni - vein drain larg intestin haemotobium - vein of bladder/rectum
what is the largest tapeworm that can infect peopl diphyllobothrium latum
what is anoth name for the fish tapeworm diphyllobothrium latum
what is anoth name for dwarf tapeworm hymenolepi nana
what are the mode of action for albendazol 1.  to tubulin 2. inhibit glucos uptak
what are the toxic associ with albendazol teratogen alopecia (loss of hair) leukopenia abnorm liver function and jaundice;
what is the mechan of action for pyrantel pamoat persist  of nicotin ach receptors,  in spastic paralysi of the worm
what are the mechan of action for ivermectin agonist at glutam receptors; increas chlorid permeabl
what is the mechan of action for praziquantel paralysi of parasites; increas in muscl  (via increas in cell membran permeabl to ca++), follow by contract and spastic paralysi of the worm
what worm is omaxmniquin use for sole for schistom. mansoni
what is the mechan of action of niclosamid deplet atp, inhibit aerob metabol
what worm would one use niclosamid for cestod (tapeworms) in combin with praziquantel
what bacteria are the main caus of spontan bacteri periton 1. e. coli, klebsiella (69%) 2. strep pneumo (5-15%) 3. staph aureus (2-4%)
what is the treatment for primari periton secondari ceftriaxone; piperacillin, tazobactam
gardnerella vaginali is character by a fishi smelling, [...] (color) discharg from the vagina gardnerella vaginali is character by a fishi smelling, grayish - white (color) discharg from the vagina
[...] is character by a fishi smelling, grayish - white (color) discharg from the vagina gardnerella vaginali is character by a fishi smelling, grayish - white (color) discharg from the vagina
microscop , when diagnos gardnerella vaginali , [...] can be seen which are epitheli cell coat with bacteria microscop , when diagnos gardnerella vaginali , clue cell can be seen which are epitheli cell coat with bacteria
microscop , when diagnos gardnerella vaginali , clue cell can be seen which are [...] cell coat with bacteria microscop , when diagnos gardnerella vaginali , clue cell can be seen which are epitheli cell coat with bacteria
gardnerella vaginali has a [...] odor gardnerella vaginali has a fishi odor
gardnerella vaginali occur when the ph is [...] gardnerella vaginali occur when the ph is 4.5
gardnerella vaginali can be diagnos by ad [...] and detect the odor produc , known as the whiff test gardnerella vaginali can be diagnos by ad koh and detect the odor produc , known as the whiff test
gardnerella vaginali can be diagnos by ad koh and detect the odor produc , known as the [...] gardnerella vaginali can be diagnos by ad koh and detect the odor produc , known as the whiff test
gardnerella vaginali is treat with [...] gardnerella vaginali is treat with metronidazol
gardnerella vaginali is gram [...] gardnerella vaginali is gram variabl
first aid microbiology: vagin infect under light microscope, what uniqu featur do gardnerella infect have [...] first aid microbiology: vagin infect under light microscope, what uniqu featur do gardnerella infect have clue cell a clue cell is a slough mucos squamous epitheli cell cover in mani adher gardnerella
first aid microbiology: vagin infect what microbi speci caus the follow present / vagin secret [...] first aid microbiology: vagin infect what microbi speci caus the follow present / vagin secret gardnerella vaginali note how the discharg look like a thin wateri liquid
[...] are cell that featur vaginosi caus by gardnerella vaginali and are describ as vagin epitheli cell cover with gardnerella vaginali . clue cell are cell that featur vaginosi caus by gardnerella vaginali and are describ as vagin epitheli cell cover with gardnerella vaginali . visibl under the microscope.
which genus of bacteria is associ with an alkaline, odour urin with nh4 [...] which genus of bacteria is associ with an alkaline, odour urin with nh4 proteus sp.
proteus is a [...] -posit organ that can produc struvit kidney stones. proteus is a ureas -posit organ that can produc struvit kidney stones.
proteus produc struvit stone that precipit with [...] -ph due to product of [...] . proteus produc struvit stone that precipit with high -ph due to product of ureas .
1st generat cephalosporin can treat uti caus what bacteria [...] 1st generat cephalosporin can treat uti caus what bacteria proteus, e. coli, klebsiella peck
proteus exhibit a " [...] " motil when plated. proteus exhibit a " swarm " motil when plated. tumbl motil = listeria
[...] exhibit a "swarming" motil when plated. proteus exhibit a "swarming" motil when plated. tumbl motil = listeria
proteus is associ with a " [...] " odor. proteus is associ with a " fishi " odor.
proteus is a bug associ with [...] , produc an ammonia scent. proteus is a bug associ with uti , produc an ammonia scent.
[...] is a bug associ with uti , produc an ammonia scent. proteus is a bug associ with uti , produc an ammonia scent.
proteus produc which type of kidney stone [...] proteus produc which type of kidney stone map (also known as struvit stone - magnesium ammonium phosphate)
first aid microbiology: bacteri taxonomi proteus is [...] , gram negative, rod (bacillus) bacteria. first aid microbiology: bacteri taxonomi proteus is an enter , gram negative, rod (bacillus) bacteria.
first aid microbiology: bacteri taxonomi proteus is an enteric, [...] , rod (bacillus) bacteria. first aid microbiology: bacteri taxonomi proteus is an enteric, gram negat , rod (bacillus) bacteria.
first aid microbiology: bacteri taxonomi proteus is an enteric, gram negative, [...] bacteria. first aid microbiology: bacteri taxonomi proteus is an enteric, gram negative, rod (bacillus) bacteria.
first aid microbiology: uti [...] is a caus of uti that when plate on agar caus the follow growth pattern first aid microbiology: uti proteus mirabili is a caus of uti that when plate on agar caus the follow growth pattern "swarm motility", urin also produc an ammonia scent
first aid microbiology: nosocomi infect urinari cather is associ with nosocomi infect by [...] , klebsiella, proteus spp first aid microbiology: nosocomi infect urinari cather is associ with nosocomi infect by e coli , klebsiella, proteus spp when you see sign of and a patient who has been cath'd put this into your differenti
first aid microbiology: nosocomi infect urinari cather is associ with nosocomi infect by e coli, [...] , proteus spp first aid microbiology: nosocomi infect urinari cather is associ with nosocomi infect by e coli, klebsiella , proteus spp when you see sign of and a patient who has been cath'd put this into your differenti
first aid microbiology: nosocomi infect urinari cather is associ with nosocomi infect by e coli, klebsiella, [...] first aid microbiology: nosocomi infect urinari cather is associ with nosocomi infect by e coli, klebsiella, proteus spp when you see sign of and a patient who has been cath'd put this into your differenti
which type of nephrolithiasi is associ with infect with urease-posit bug (e.g. proteus mirabilis, klebsiella spp., staphylococcus spp. ) [...] which type of nephrolithiasi is associ with infect with urease-posit bug (e.g. proteus mirabilis, klebsiella spp., staphylococcus spp. ) ammonium magnesium phosphat ureas posit bug are abl to hydrolyz ureas into ammonia, therebi caus urinari alkalinization.
[...] and klebsiella spp. are 2 gram-neg bacteria known to caus uti that yield a posit urinari ureas test . proteus spp. and klebsiella spp. are 2 gram-neg bacteria known to caus uti that yield a posit urinari ureas test .
proteus spp. and [...] are 2 gram-neg bacteria known to caus uti that yield a posit urinari ureas test . proteus spp. and klebsiella spp. are 2 gram-neg bacteria known to caus uti that yield a posit urinari ureas test .
what is the ureas express of proteus [...] what is the ureas express of proteus posit
[...] and proteus mirabili are 3 nocosomi bacteri infect that have urinari catheter as a risk factor. escherichia coli, klebsiella, and proteus mirabili are 3 nocosomi bacteri infect that have urinari catheter as a risk factor.
escherichia coli, klebsiella, and [...] are 3 nocosomi bacteri infect that have urinari catheter as a risk factor. escherichia coli, klebsiella, and proteus mirabili are 3 nocosomi bacteri infect that have urinari catheter as a risk factor.
the [...] gene is secret via a type iii secret system in yersinia pesti . the yop gene is secret via a type iii secret system in yersinia pesti .
the yop gene is secret via a [...] secret system in yersinia pesti . the yop gene is secret via a type iii secret system in yersinia pesti .
yersinia enterocolitica can be transmit through [...] feces. yersinia enterocolitica can be transmit through puppi feces.
yersinia enterocolitica may be transmit through contamin [...] (dairi product). yersinia enterocolitica may be transmit through contamin milk (dairi product).
yersinia enterolitica is associ with [...] diarrhea in toddler (age group). yersinia enterolitica is associ with bloodi diarrhea in toddler (age group).
yersinia enterolitica is associ with bloodi diarrhea in [...] (age group). yersinia enterolitica is associ with bloodi diarrhea in toddler (age group).
pasteurella exhibit which stain pattern [...] what other organ has a similar stain pattern [...] pasteurella exhibit which stain pattern safety-pin (bipolar staining) what other organ has a similar stain pattern yersinia enterocolitica
anim like prari dogs, rats, or chipmunk are the [...] for yersinia pesti (plague). anim like prari dogs, rats, or chipmunk are the reservoir for yersinia pesti (plague).
yersinia pesti (plague) is transmit by [...] . yersinia pesti (plague) is transmit by flea . bite of infect ea that have bitten infect ground squirrels, prairi dogs, wood rats, or chipmunks, which are the reservoir of the bacterium
yersinia pesti (plague) first spread to the [...] ,  characterist [...] . yersinia pesti (plague) first spread to the lymph node ,  characterist bubo . common in inguin ln -- then can spread and caus septicemia, caus widespread necrosi
yersinia pesti (plague) often escap the lymph node to produc [...] and caus widespread necrosi of the organs. yersinia pesti (plague) often escap the lymph node to produc septicemia and caus widespread necrosi of the organs. flea bite -- lymph node (buboes) -- blood stream -- septicemia/sept shock/organ necrosis/d
yersinia pesti (plague) often escap the lymph node to produc septicemia and caus widespread [...] of the organs. yersinia pesti (plague) often escap the lymph node to produc septicemia and caus widespread necrosi of the organs. flea bite -- lymph node (buboes) -- blood stream -- septicemia/sept shock/organ necrosis/d
yersinia pesti is [...] intracellular. yersinia pesti is facult intracellular.
yersinia enterocolitica is a gram-neg rod that can caus mesenter lymphadenitis, mimic [...] . yersinia enterocolitica is a gram-neg rod that can caus mesenter lymphadenitis, mimic append .
yersinia enterocolitica is a gram-neg rod that can caus [...] , mimic appendicitis. yersinia enterocolitica is a gram-neg rod that can caus mesenter lymphaden , mimic appendicitis.
[...] is a gram-neg rod that can caus mesenter lymphadenitis, mimic appendicitis. yersinia enterocolitica is a gram-neg rod that can caus mesenter lymphadenitis, mimic appendicitis.
yersinia enterocolitica can be prevent with a [...] vaccin produc a [...] immun response. yersinia enterocolitica can be prevent with a kill vaccin produc a humor immun response.
first aid microbiology: bacteri taxonomi yersinia is [...] , gram negative, rod (bacillus) bacteria. first aid microbiology: bacteri taxonomi yersinia is an enter , gram negative, rod (bacillus) bacteria.
first aid microbiology: bacteri taxonomi yersinia is an enteric, [...] , rod (bacillus) bacteria. first aid microbiology: bacteri taxonomi yersinia is an enteric, gram negat , rod (bacillus) bacteria.
first aid microbiology: bacteri taxonomi yersinia is an enteric, gram negative, [...] bacteria. first aid microbiology: bacteri taxonomi yersinia is an enteric, gram negative, rod (bacillus) bacteria.
[...] and gentamycin are aminoglycosid use to treat yersinia pesti . streptomycin and gentamycin are aminoglycosid use to treat yersinia pesti .
streptomycin and [...] are aminoglycosid use to treat yersinia pesti . streptomycin and gentamycin are aminoglycosid use to treat yersinia pesti .
how is bubon plagu ( yersinia pesti ) transmit [...] how is bubon plagu ( yersinia pesti ) transmit flea
what is the gram stain of yersinia [...] what is the gram stain of yersinia negat
what type of diarrhea is caus by yersinia enterolytica [...] what type of diarrhea is caus by yersinia enterolytica bloodi caus day-car outbreaks. may also caus pseudoappendicitis.
what are the negat coccobacilli franc. tularensi h. influenz. brucella pasteurella bordetella pertussi
what is the etiolog of chancroid haemophilus ducreyi
what are the characterist of chancroid what group of peopl is it associ with pus-lik base; pain associ with sex worker
what is this call etiolog romana sign; trypanasoma cruzi
what would you find in a blood smear for trypanasomi cruzi trypomastigot
what receptor doe the cmv virus attach to integrin (heparan sulfate)
what receptor doe the parvovirus b19 attach to p antigen on rbc
which antibodi would test for acut hav prior hav infect and/or prior vaccination, as well as protect against reinfect igm, igg
whar drug doe dapson act similar as sulfonamid (inhibit dh synthesis)
citrat synthas doe what combin acetyl coa (2 carbons) + oxaloacet (4 carbons) to  citrate.
aconitas doe what citrat -- cis-aconit -- isocitr
isocitr dehydrogenas doe what rate limit step of kreb cycle. 6c isocitrate-- 5c a-ketoglutar + nadh + co2.
oxoglutar dehydrogenas complex doe what convert a-ketoglutar -- succinyl-coa + co2 + nadh
succin thiokinas (aka succinyl coa synthetase) doe what convert succinyl-coa -- succinate, + gtp
succin dehydrogenas doe what convert succin -- fumar + fadh2
fumaras doe what convert fumar -- malat
malat dehydrogenas doe what convert malat -- oxaloacet + nadh
where is the first place that femal cell are arrest all egg are arrest as primari oocyt in prophas i of meiosis, at birth. last until puberti
what doe fsh do in femal develop at puberty, stimul the growth of the granulosa cell around a primari oocyte.
what do granulosa cell do secret the viscous zona pellucida.
what do theca cell do upon stimul by lh, they secret androgen. androgen is convert into estradiol ( of estrogen) in presenc of fsh, and releas into blood.
typically, estradiol inhibit _____, but right befor ovulation, a spike in estradiol  in a _____. lh secret by anterior pituitary; surg in lh known as luteal surge.
luteal surg caus what ovulation, as egg (now secondari oocyt have complet meiosi i) is swept into fallopian tube.
follow ovulation, remain portion of follicl becom _____ which ______ corpus luteum, which secret progresteron and estrogen (in respons to hcg secret from placenta) throughout pregnanc or until degrad into corpus albicans.
cortic reaction is defin as the entri of sperm nucleus into cytoplasm of oocyt -- prevent of other sperm from fertil the same egg
zygot develop stage befor implant on uteran wall zygot -- morula (totipotent) -- blastocyst -- placenta (outer cells) and embryo (inner cells, pluripotent)
after implantation, placenta begin secreting____ hcg, which keep corpus luteum alive, and preserv suppli of estrogen and progesterone.
develop follow implant on uterin wall embryo -- gastrula (3 primari germ layers) -- neurula
mesoderm skeleton, muscles, blood, heart, kidneys, dermi of skin
endoderm line of digest and respiratori tracts, liver, pancreas, bladder
what happen dure neurul through induction, the notochord (mesoderm) caus ectoderm to develop into neural tube, and later  brain + nervous system.
cell of the ectoderm that are close to the neural tube neural crest, function as accessori cell to nervous system (schwann cells, etc.)
senesc process by which cell stop prolifer in respons to environemnt stressors. ultim clear away by immun cells.
pariet cell secret hcl (gastric acid) via  transport into lumen. also secret product of carbonate, h+ and hco3- (bicarbonate) into stomach and interstiti fluid, respectively. function to decreas stomach ph and increas interstiti ph. downstream,  in releas of secretin, which trigger pancrea to start secret of pancreat enzym / bicarbonate.
chief cell secret pepsinogen, zymogen precursor to pepsin, which digest proteins.
gram posit bacteria thick peptidoglycan wall, singl lipid bilayer. no lipopolysaccharides.
gram negat bacteria thin peptidoglycan wall, two lipid bilayers. lipopolysaccharides.
ph of the small intestin 8.5; serv to neutral the acid chyme from the stomach
bile secreted/stor by what organ(s) secret by liver, store in gallbladd
nucleas are secret exclus by the pancreas. break down amino acid
micha menten vo (initi velocity) = (vmax * [s] ) / (km + [s] )
termin electron acceptor in lactic acid ferment pyruvate. nadh donat electron to pyruvate,  nad+ and lactate.
lyas doe what catalyz break of bond by mean other than hydrolysi
three most import steady-st enzym equat 1) micha menten equation. 2) kcat = vmax/[etotal] 3) keffici = kcat/km
where is the site of glycosyl in a eukaryot golgi appartus
region of ribosom  in eukaryot vs prokaryo eukaryotes: g cap prokaroyes: shine-dalgarno
dna polymeras iii proofread name &amp; direct exonucleas ity, in backward direction. 3' -- 5' !!
what remov rna primer after dna replic dna pol i
action of mismatch repair mechan mismatch mark with cut, endonucleas remov nucleotide, polymeras add new nucleotide, ligas attach everyth nicely. mechan of mark in bacteria is via methylation.
kidney are deriv from mesoderm
liver and pancrea are deriv from endoderm
bladder is deriv from endoderm
a diseas caus by infect with the human immunodefici virus hiv-1. it occur when an infect patient has lost most of his or her cd4 t cell so that infect with opportunist pathogen occur acquir immun defici syndrom aid
immun to infect confer by an adapt immun respons adapt immun
pair mucosa-associ lymphoid tissu locat in the nasal caviti adenoid
ani substanc that enhanc the immun respons to an antigen with which it is mix adjuv
vessel of the lymphat system that drain extracellular fluid from the tissu and carri antigen, macrophages, and dendrit cell from site of infect to lymph node or other peripher lymphoid organ affer lymphat vessel
the increas in affin for their specif antigen of the antibodi produc as an adapt immun respons progresses. this phenomenon is particular promin in secondari and subsequ immun affin matur
the state in which a symptomat immun reaction is made to a normal innocu environment antigen. it involv the interact between the antigen and antibodi or prime t cell produc by earlier exposur to the same antigen allergi
the immunolog mediat reject of graft tissu or organ from a genet nonident donor. it is due chiefli to recognit of nonself mhc molecul on the graft allograft reject
a state of nonrespons to antigen. peopl are said to be in this state when they cannot mount delayed-typ hypersensit reaction to a test antigen, wherea t cell and b cell are said to be in this state when they cannot respond to their specif antigen under optim condit of stimul anergi
a protein that  specif to a particular substance—cal it antigen. each of these protein has a uniqu structur that enabl it to  specif to it correspond antigen, but all of these protein have the same overal structure. these protein are produc by differenti b cell plasma cell in respons to infect or immunization, and  to and neutral pathogen or prepar them for uptak and destruct by phagocyt antibodi
ani molecul that can  specif to an antibodi or generat peptid fragment that are recogn by a t-cell receptor antigen
the site at the tip of each arm of an antibodi that make physic contact with the antigen through the mean of a noncoval interaction. the antigen specif of the site is determin by it shape and the amino acid present antigen- site
that portion of an antigen molecul that is bound by the antigen- site of a given antibodi or antigen receptor; it is also known as an epitop antigen determin
high special cell that can process antigen and  their peptid fragment on the cell surfac togeth with other, co-stimulatory, protein requir for  naiv t cells. some exampl of these cell includ dendrit cells, macrophages, and b cell antigen-pres cell apc
the cell-surfac receptor by which lymphocyt recogn antigen. each individu lymphocyt bear receptor of a singl antigen specif antigen receptor
amphipath peptid or protein secret by epitheli cell and phagocyt that kill a varieti of microb nonspecifically, main by disrupt cell membranes. exampl of these amphipath peptid or protein in human includ the defensins, the cathelicidins, the histatins, and regiiiγ antimicrobi peptides, antimicrobi protein
the fluid compon of clot blood from an immun individu that contain antibodi against the antigen use for immunization. this compon contain a mixtur of differ antibodi that all  the antigen, but which each have a differ structure, their own epitop on the antigen, and their own set of cross-react antiserum
a  of cell death common in the immun system, in which the cell  an intern death program. it is character by nuclear dna degradation, nuclear degener and condensation, and the rapid phagocytosi of cell remains. prolifer lymphocyt experi high rate of this  of cell death dure their develop and dure immun respons apoptosi
a gut-associ lymphoid tissu locat at the begin of the colon appendix
diseas in which the patholog is caus by adapt immun respons to self antigen autoimmun diseas
mechan that prevent a host exposur to microbes, such as anatom barrier or particular behavior avoid
a vast kingdom of unicellular prokaryot microorganisms, some speci of which caus infecti diseas in human and animals, while other make up most of the bodi commens microbiota. pathogen microorgan of this kingdom may live in the extracellular spaces, or insid cell in vesicl or in the cytosol bacteria
type of white blood cell contain granul that stain with basic dyes. it is thought to have a function similar to mast cell basophil
one of the two type of antigen-specif lymphocyt respons for adapt immun responses. their function is to produc antibodies. these lymphocyt are divid into two class b cells, b lymphocyt
the cell-surfac receptor on b cell for specif antigen. it is compos of a transmembran immunoglobulin molecul which recogn antigen associ with the invari igα and igβ chain which have a signal function. on  by antigen, b cell differenti into plasma cell produc antibodi molecul of the same antigen specif as this receptor b-cell antigen receptor, b-cell receptor bcr
the tissu where all the cellular element of the blood—r blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets—ar initi generat from hematopoiet stem cells. this tissu is also the site of further b-cell develop in mammal and the sourc of stem cell that give rise to tregcel on migrat to the thymus. thus, transplant of this tissu can restor all the cellular element of the blood, includ the cell requir for adapt immun respons bone marrow
a second inject of an antigen, given some time after the initi immunization. it stimul a secondari immun respons booster immun
organ lymphoid tissu found in the bronchi in some animals. adult human do not normal have such organ lymphoid tissu in the respiratori tract, but it may be present in some infant and children bronchus-associ lymphoid tissu balt
lymphoid organ associ with the gut that is the site of b-cell develop in chicken bursa of fabricius
the co-receptor for t-cell receptor that recogn peptid antigen bound to mhc class ii molecules. it  to the later face of the mhc molecul cd4
the co-receptor for t-cell receptor that recogn peptid antigen bound to mhc class i molecules. it  to the later face of the mhc molecul cd8
an adapt immun respons in which antigen-specif effector t cell have the main role cell-medi immun respons
the studi of the cellular basi of immun cellular immunolog
the site of lymphocyt development; in humans, these are the bone marrow and thymus. b lymphocyt develop in bone marrow, wherea t lymphocyt develop within the thymus from bone marrow-deriv progenitors. also call the primari lymphoid organ central lymphoid organs, central lymphoid tissu
small chemoattract protein that stimul the migrat and  of cells, especi phagocyt cell and lymphocytes. these protein have a central role in inflammatori respons chemokin
the class of an antibodi is defin by the type of heavi chain it contains. there are five main antibodi classes: iga, igd, igm, igg, and ige, contain heavi chain α, δ, μ, γ, and ε, respectively. the igg class has sever subclass class
the elimin of immatur lymphocyt when they  to self antigens, which produc toler to self as requir by the clonal select theori of adapt immunity. this is the main mechan of central toler and can also occur in peripher toler clonal delet
the prolifer of antigen-specif lymphocyt in respons to antigen stimul that preced their differenti into effector cells. it is an essenti step in adapt immunity, allow rare antigen-specif cell to increas in number so that they can effect combat the pathogen that elicit the respons clonal expans
the central paradigm of adapt immunity. it state that adapt immun respons deriv from individu antigen-specif lymphocyt that are self-tolerant. these specif lymphocyt prolifer in respons to antigen and differenti into antigen-specif effector cell that elimin the elicit pathogen, and into memori cell to sustain immunity. the theori was ul by macfarlan burnet and in earlier  by niel jern and david talmag clonal select theori
a popul of cell all deriv from the same progenitor cell clone
describ a featur uniqu to member of a clone clonotyp
the divers among antigen receptor generat by combin separ unit of genet ination, compris two types. first, receptor gene segment are join in mani differ combin to generat divers receptor chains; second, two differ receptor chain heavi and light in immunoglobulins; α and β, or γ and δ, in t-cell receptor are combin to make the antigen-recognit site combinatori divers
microorgan predomin bacteria that normal live harmless in symbiosi with their host for exampl the gut bacteria in human and other animals. mani of these microorgan confer a posit benefit on their host in some way commens microbiota, commens microorgan
stem cell that can give rise to all the type of lymphocyt with the except of innat lymphoid cell ilc common lymphoid progenitor clp
stem cell that can give rise to the myeloid cell of the immun system—macrophages, granulocytes, mast cells, and dendrit cell of the innat immun system. this stem cell also give rise to megakaryocyt and red blood cell common myeloid progenitor cmp
a set of plasma protein that act togeth as a defens against pathogen in extracellular spaces. the pathogen becom coat with mani of this protein that facilit the pathogen remov by phagocyt and that can also kill certain pathogen direct complement
the  of the normal inact protein of the complement system that occur on infect complement 
cell-surfac protein of various type that recogn and  complement protein that have becom bound to an antigen such as a pathogen. on phagocytes, these cell-surfac protein enabl them to identifi and  pathogen coat with complement proteins, and to ingest and destroy them complement receptor crs
that part of an immunoglobulin or a t-cell receptor that is relat constant in amino acid sequenc between differ molecules. also known as the fc region in antibodies. the region of an antibodi determin it particular effector function constant region, c region
cell-surfac protein that increas the sensit of a receptor to it ligand by  to associ ligand and particip in signaling. the antigen receptor on t cell and b cell act in conjunct with these cell-surfac protein co-receptor
the outer part of a tissu or organ; in lymph node it refer to the follicles, which are main popul by b cell cortex
cell-surfac protein on antigen-pres cell that deliv co-stimulatori signal to naiv t cells. exampl are the b7 molecul on dendrit cells, which are ligand for cd28 on naiv t cell co-stimulatori molecul
protein made by a cell that affect the behavior of other cells, particular immun cells. protein of this kind made by lymphocyt are often call interleukin abbrevi il cytokin
t cell that can kill other cells, typic cd8 t cell defend against intracellular pathogen that live or reproduc in the cytosol, but in some case also cd4 t cell cytotox t cell
bone marrow-deriv cell found in most tissues, includ lymphoid tissues. there are two main function subsets. the first subset, call conventional, take up antigen in peripher tissues, are  by contact with pathogens, and travel to the peripher lymphoid organs, where they are the most potent stimul of t-cell responses. the second subset, call plasmacytoid, can also take up and present antigen, but their main function in an infect is to produc larg amount of the antivir interferon as a  of pathogen recognit through receptor such as tlrs dendrit cell
a lymph node downstream of a site of infect that receiv antigen and microb from the site via the lymphat system. drain lymph node often enlarg enorm dure an immun respons and can be palpated; they were origin call swollen gland drain lymph node
the cell that differenti from naiv lymphocyt after initi  by antigen and can then mediat the remov of pathogen from the bodi without further differentiation. they are distinct from memori lymphocytes, which must undergo further differenti to becom effector lymphocyt effector lymphocyt
those process by which pathogen are destroy and clear from the body. innat and adapt immun respons use most of the same effector mechan to elimin pathogen effector mechan
this term refer to a set of immun mechanisms, either cell-medi and humoral, innat or adaptive, that act togeth in the elimin of a particular categori of pathogen effector modul
the t cell that per the function of an immun response, such as cell kill and cell ation, that clear the infecti agent from the body. there are sever differ subsets, each with a specif role in an immun respons effector t lymphocyt
cell type that  the endothelium, the epithelium of a blood vessel wall endotheli cell
the epithelium that  the wall of blood capillari and the line of larger blood vessel endothelium
a type of white blood cell contain granul that stain with eosin. it is thought to be import chiefli in defens against parasit infections, but is also medic import as an effector cell in allerg reaction eosinophil
a site on an antigen recogn by an antibodi or an antigen receptor. also call an antigen determin epitop
the carboxy-termin halv of the two heavi chain of an igg molecul disulfide-bond to each other by the residu hing region. it is produc by cleavag of igg by papain fc fragment, fc region
famili of cell-surfac receptor that  the fc portion of differ immunoglobulin fc receptor
an area of predomin b cell in a peripher lymphoid organ, such as a lymph node, which also contain follicular dendrit cell follicl
a kingdom of single-cel and multicellular eukaryot organisms, includ the yeast and molds, that can caus a varieti of diseases. immun to these organ is complex and involv both humor and cell-medi respons fungi
set of short dna sequenc at the immunoglobulin and t-cell receptor loci that encod differ region of the variabl domain of antigen receptor gene segment
site of intens b-cell prolifer and differenti that develop in lymphoid follicl dure an adapt immun response. somat hypermut and class switch occur in germin center germin center
white blood cell with multilob nuclei and cytoplasm granules. they compris the neutrophils, eosinophils, and basophils. also known as polymorphonuclear leukocyt granulocyt
lymphoid tissu associ with the gastrointestin tract, compris peyer patches, the appendix, and isol lymphoid follicl found in the intestin wall, where adapt immun respons are initiated, and by lymphat to mesenter lymph node gut-associ lymphoid tissu galt
the major histocompat complex of the mouse. haplotyp are design by a lower-cas superscript, as in h-2, b, h-2 locus, h-2 gene
one of the two type of protein chain in an immunoglobulin molecule, the other be call the light chain. there are sever differ classes, or isotypes, of this protein chain α,δ, ε, γ, and μ, each of which confer a distinct function  on the antibodi molecul heavi chain, h chain
effector cd4 t cell that stimul or b cell to make antibodi in respons to antigen challenge. t, h, 2, t, h, 1, and the t, fh, subset of effector cd4 t cell can per this function helper cd4 t cells, helper t cell
type of pluripot cell in the bone marrow that can give rise to all the differ blood cell type hematopoiet stem cell hscs
special small venous blood vessel in lymphoid tissues. lymphocyt migrat from the blood into lymphoid tissu by attach to the high endotheli cell in the wall of the venul and squeez between them high endotheli cells, high endotheli venul hev
immun due to protein circul in the blood, such as antibodi in adapt immun or complement in innat immunity. adapt humor immun can be transfer to unimmun recipi by the transfer of serum contain specif antibodi humor immunity, humor immun respons
a subset of innat lymphoid cell character by product of ifn-γ ilc1
the tissues, cells, and molecul involv in innat immun and adapt immun immun system
ani inherit or acquir disord in which some aspect or aspect of host defens are absent or function defect immunodefici diseas
ani molecul that, on it own, is abl to elicit an adapt immun respons on inject into a person or anim immunogen
the protein famili to which antibodi and b-cell receptor belong immunoglobulin ig
the abil of the immun system to respond more rapid and more effect on a second encount with an antigen. this is specif for a particular antigen and is long-liv immunolog memori
the studi of all aspect of host defens against infect and also of the advers consequ of immun respons immunolog
general term for the local accumul of fluid, plasma proteins, and white blood cell that is initi by physic injury, infection, or a local immun respons inflamm
cell such as macrophages, neutrophils, and effector t, h, 1 lymphocyt that invad inflam tissu and contribut to the inflamm inflammatori cell
chemic structur that indic the presenc of invad microb or cellular damage, such as bacteri lipopolysaccharides, extracellular atp, or urat crystal inflammatori induc
chemic such as cytokin produc by immun cell that act on target cell to promot defens against microb inflammatori mediat
the various innat resist mechan that are encount first by a pathogen, befor adapt immun is induced, such as anatom barriers, antimicrobi peptides, the complement system, and macrophag and neutrophil carri nonspecif pathogen-recognit receptors. this is present in all individu at all times, doe not increas with repeat exposur to a given pathogen, and discrimin between group of similar pathogens, rather than respond to a particular pathogen innat immun
general term for a larg group of protein that recogn mani differ inflammatori induc and that are encod in the germlin and do not need gene rearrang in somat cell to be express innat recognit receptor
the design of an immunoglobulin chain in respect of the type of constant region it has. light chain can be of either κ or λ isotype. heavi chain can be of μ, δ, γ, α, or ε isotype. the differ heavy-chain isotyp have differ effector function and determin the class and function properti of antibodi igm, igd, igg, iga, and ige, respect isotyp
the variabl in sequenc present in antigen-specif receptor that is creat dure the process of join v, d, and j gene segment and which is due to imprecis join and insert of nontempl nucleotid at the join between gene segment junction divers
a white blood cell. leukocyt includ lymphocytes, polymorphonuclear leukocytes, and monocyt leukocyt
the smaller of the two type of polypeptid chain that make up an immunoglobulin molecule. it consist of one v and one c domain, and is disulfide-bond to the heavi chain. there are two classes, or isotypes, of light chain, known as κ and λ, which are produc from separ genet loci light chain, l chain
pair mass of organ peripher lymphoid tissu situat at the base of the tongue, in which adapt immun respons can be initiated. they are part of the mucos immun system lingual tonsil
the extracellular fluid that accumul in tissu and is drain by lymphat vessel that carri it through the lymphat system to the thorac duct, which return it to the blood lymph
a type of peripher lymphoid organ present in mani locat throughout the bodi where lymphat vessel converg lymph node
the system of lymph-carri vessel and peripher lymphoid tissu through which extracellular fluid from tissu pass befor it is return to the blood via the thorac duct lymphat system
thin-wal vessel that carri lymph lymphat vessels, lymphat
a lymphocyt that has enlarg after  and has increas it rate of rna and protein synthesis, but is not yet fulli differenti lymphoblast
a class of white blood cell that bear variabl cell-surfac receptor for antigen and are respons for adapt immun responses. on antigen recognition, this class of white blood cell enlarg to  a lymphoblast and then prolifer and differenti into an antigen-specif effector cell lymphocyt
all the high variabl antigen receptor carri by b and t lymphocyt lymphocyt receptor repertoir
describ tissu compos main of lymphocyt lymphoid
organ tissu character by veri larg number of lymphocyt interact with a nonlymphoid stroma. the central, or primary, organ of this kind, where lymphocyt are generated, are the thymus and bone marrow. the main peripheral, or secondary, organ of this kind, in which adapt immun respons are initiated, are the lymph nodes, spleen, and mucosa-associ lymphoid organ such as tonsil and peyer patch lymphoid organ
tissu compos of larg number of lymphocyt lymphoid tissu
larg mononuclear phagocyt cell present in most tissu that have mani functions, such as scaveng cells, pathogen-recognit cells, product of pro-inflammatori cytokines. macrophag aris both embryon and from bone marrow precursor throughout life macrophag
a process in which larg amount of extracellular fluid are taken up into an intracellular vesicle. this is one way in which dendrit cell can take up a wide varieti of antigen from their surround macropinocytosi
a cluster of gene on human chromosom 6 that encod a set of membran glycoprotein call the mhc molecules. the mhc also encod protein involv in antigen process and other aspect of host defense. the gene for the mhc molecul are the most polymorph in the human genome, have larg number of allel at the various loci major histocompat complex mhc
area of lymphoid tissu lie at the border of the white pulp in the spleen margin zone
a uniqu popul of b cell found in the spleen margin zones; they do not circul and are distinguish from convent b cell by a distinct set of surfac protein margin zone b cell
a larg granule-rich cell found in connect tissu throughout the body, most abund in the submucos tissu and the dermis. the granul store bio molecul includ the vasoact amin histamine, which are releas on mast-cel ation. mast cell are thought to be involv in defens against parasit and they have a crucial role in allerg reaction mast cell
special epitheli cell type in the intestin epithelium over peyer patches, through which antigen and pathogen enter from the gut m cell microfold cell
transmembran immunoglobulin present on b cells; it is the b-cell receptor for antigen membran immunoglobulin mig
b and t lymphocyt that mediat immunolog memory. they are more sensit than naiv lymphocyt to antigen and respond rapid on reexposur to the antigen that origin induc them memori cell
polymorph cell-surfac protein encod in the mhc locus and express on most cells. they present antigen peptid generat in the cytosol to cd8 t cells, and also  the co-receptor cd8 mhc class i molecul
polymorph cell-surfac protein encod in the mhc locus are express primarili on special antigen-pres cells. they present antigen peptid deriv from intern extracellular pathogen to cd4 t cell and also  the co-receptor cd4 mhc class ii molecul
high polymorph cell-surfac protein involv in present of peptid antigen to t cells. they are also known as histocompat antigen mhc molecul
antibodi produc by a singl clone of b\xa0lymphocytes, so that they are all ident monoclon antibodi
type of white blood cell with a bean-shap nucleus; it is a precursor of tissu macrophag monocyt
generic term for all organ lymphoid tissu found at mucos surfaces, in which an adapt immun respons can be initiated. it compris galt, nalt, and balt when present mucosa-associ lymphoid tissu malt
the immun system that protect intern mucos surfac such as the line of the gut, respiratori tract, and urogenit tracts, which are the site of entri for virtual all pathogen and other antigen mucos immun system
refer to the lineag of blood cell that includ all leukocyt except lymphocyt myeloid
t cell or b cell that have undergon normal develop in the thymus or the bone marrow but have not yet been  by foreign or self antigen naiv lymphocyt
organ lymphoid tissu found in the upper respiratori tract. in humans, this lymphoid tissu consist of waldey ring, which includ the adenoids, palatine, and lingual tonsils, plus other similar organ lymphoid tissu locat around the pharynx. it is part of the mucos immun system nasal-associ lymphoid tissu nalt
a type of ilc that is import in innat immun to virus and other intracellular pathogens, and in antibody-depend cell-medi cytotox adcc. these cell express  and inhibitori receptors, but not the antigen-specif receptor of t or b cell natur killer nk cell
inhibit of the infect of a virus or the toxic of a toxin molecul by the  of antibodi neutral
the most numer type of white blood cell in human peripher blood. these are phagocyt cell with a multilob nucleus and granul that stain with neutral stains. they enter infect tissu and engulf and kill extracellular pathogen neutrophil
larg famili of protein contain a nucleotide-oligomer domain nod associ with various other domains, and whose general function is the detect of microb and of\xa0cellular stress nod-lik receptor nlrs
the coat of the surfac of a pathogen by antibodi and/or complement that make it more easili ingest by phagocyt opson
pair mass of organ peripher lymphoid tissu locat on each side of the throat, and in which an adapt immun respons can be generated. they are part of the mucos immun system palatin tonsil
the t-cell area of lymph node paracort area
organ that obtain susten from a live host. in immunology, it refer to worm and protozoa, the subject matter of parasitolog parasit
microorgan that typic caus diseas when it infect a host pathogen
molecul specif associ with group of pathogen that are recogn by cell of the innat immun system pathogen-associ molecular pattern pamp
receptor of the innat immun system that recogn common molecular pattern on pathogen surfac pattern recognit receptor prrs
part of the inner region of the white pulp of the spleen; it contain main t cell periarteriolar lymphoid sheath pal
the lymph nodes, spleen, and mucosa-associ lymphoid tissues, in which adapt immun respons are induced, as oppos to the central lymphoid organs, in which lymphocyt develop. they are also call secondari lymphoid organ and tissu peripher lymphoid organs, peripher lymphoid tissu
organ peripher lymphoid organ under the epithelium in the small intestine, especi the ileum, and in which an adapt immun respons can be initiated. they contain lymphoid follicl and t-cell areas. they are part of the gut-associ lymphoid tissu galt peyer patch
termin differenti  b lymphocytes. these cell are the main antibody-secret cell of the body. they are found in the medulla of the lymph nodes, in splenic red pulp, in bone marrow, and in mucos tissu plasma cell
typic refer to the capac of a progenitor cell to generat all possibl lineag of an organ system pluripot
exist in a varieti of differ s; appli to a gene, occur in a varieti of differ allel polymorph
the first encount with a given antigen, which generat the primari adapt immun respons primari immun
the site of lymphocyt development; in humans, these are the bone marrow and thymus. b lymphocyt develop in bone marrow, wherea t lymphocyt develop within the thymus from bone marrow-deriv progenitors. also call central lymphoid organ primari lymphoid organ
the first encount with a given antigen, which generat the primari adapt immun respons prime
the nonlymphoid area of the spleen in which red blood cell are broken down red pulp
effector cd4 t cell that inhibit t-cell respons and are involv in control immun reaction and prevent autoimmunity. sever differ subset have been distinguished, notabl the natur regulatori t-cell lineag that is produc in the thymus, and the induc regulatori t cell that differenti from naiv cd4 t cell in the peripheri in certain cytokin environ regulatori t cell
a general immun strategi aim at reduc or elimin pathogens; compar with avoid and toler resist
a booster inject of an antigen, given some time after the initi immunization. it stimul a secondari immun respons secondari immun
the lymph nodes, spleen, and mucosa-associ lymphoid tissues, in which adapt immun respons are induced, as oppos to the central lymphoid organs, in which lymphocyt develop. they are also call peripher lymphoid organ and tissu secondari lymphoid organs, secondari lymphoid tissu
the potenti antigen on the tissu of an individual, against which an immun respons is not usual made except in the case of autoimmun self antigen
an organ in the upper left side of the periton caviti contain a red pulp, involv in remov senesc blood cells, and a white pulp of lymphoid cell that respond to antigen deliv to the spleen by the blood spleen
the membrane-bound immunoglobulin that act as the antigen receptor on b cell surfac immunoglobulin sig
one of the two type of antigen-specif lymphocyt respons for adapt immun responses, the other be the b cells. these lymphocyt are respons for the cell-medi adapt immun reactions. they origin in the bone marrow but undergo most of their develop in the thymus. the high variabl antigen receptor on these lymphocyt recogn a complex of peptid antigen bound to mhc molecul on cell surfaces. there are two main lineag of these lymphocytes: those carri α:β receptor and those carri γ:δ receptors. some of these lymphocyt  macrophages, some help b cell produc antibody, and some kill cell infect with virus and other intracellular pathogen t cell, t lymphocyt
region of peripher lymphoid organ that are enrich in naiv t cell and are distinct from the follicles. they are the site at which adapt immun respons are initi t-cell areas, t-cell zone
the cell-surfac receptor for antigen on treglymphocytes. it consist of a disulfide-link heterodim of the high variabl α and β chain in a complex with the invari cd3 and ζ proteins, which have a signal function. t cell carri this type of receptor are often call α:β t cells. an altern receptor made up of variabl γ and δ chain is express with cd3 and ζ on a subset of t cell t-cell receptor tcr
an effector t cell found in lymphoid follicl that provid help to b cell for antibodi product and class switch t follicular helper t, fh, cell
a subset of effector cd4 t cell character by the cytokin they produce. they are main involv in  macrophag but can also help stimul b cell to produc antibodi t, h, 1
a subset of effector cd4 t cell that are character by the cytokin they produce. they are involv in stimul b cell to produc antibody, and are often call helper cd4 t cell t, h, 2
a subset of cd4 t cell that are character by product of the cytokin il-17. they help recruit neutrophil to site of infect t, h, 17
a central lymphoid organ, in which t cell develop, situat in the upper part of the middl of the chest, just behind the breastbon thymus
the failur to respond to an antigen toler
describ the state of immunolog tolerance, in which the individu doe not respond to a particular antigen toler
innat receptor on macrophages, dendrit cells, and some other cells, that recogn pathogen and their products, such as bacteri lipopolysaccharide. recognit stimul the receptor-bear cell to produc cytokin that help initi immun respons toll-lik receptor tlrs
class of effector  aim at elimin of intracellular pathogen type 1 immun
class of effector  aim at elimin of parasit and promot barrier and mucos immun type 2 immun
class of effector  aim at elimin of extracellular pathogen such as bacteria and fungi type 3 immun
the deliber induct of adapt immun to a pathogen by inject a dead or attenu nonpathogen live  of the pathogen or it antigen a vaccin vaccin
the region of an immunoglobulin or t-cell receptor that is  of the amino-termin domain of it compon polypeptid chains. these are the most variabl part of the molecul and contain the antigen- site variabl region
the intent inhal of or skin infect with materi taken from smallpox pustul of an infect person for the purpos of deriv protect immun variol
pathogen compos of a nucleic acid genom enclos in a protein coat. these pathogen can replic onli in a live cell, becaus they do not possess the metabol machineri for independ life virus
the discret area of lymphoid tissu in the spleen white pulp
a class of antimicrobi peptid produc by neutrophil and the paneth cell of the intestin α-defensin
a chang in the protein present in the blood that occur dure the earli phase of an infect acute-phas respons
a lead caus of blind in the elderly, for which some single-nucleotid polymorph snps in the factor h gene confer an increas risk age-rel macular degener
a  of complement  that is initi by spontan hydrolysi of c3 and which use factor b and factor d to  the uniqu c3 convertas c3bbb altern pathway
describ molecul that have a posit charg or hydrophil region separ from a hydrophob region amphipath
pro-inflammatori complement fragment c5a and c3a releas by cleavag dure complement ation. they are recogn by specif receptors, and recruit fluid and inflammatori cell to the site of their releas anaphylatoxin
a rapid-onset and system allerg reaction to antigen, for exampl to insect venom inject direct into the bloodstream, or to food such as peanuts. sever system reaction can be potenti fatal due to circulatori collaps and suffoc from tracheal swelling. it usual  from antigen  to ige bound by fcε receptor on mast cells, lead to system releas of inflammatori mediat anaphylaxi
enzym that kill microorgan by their actions. an exampl is lysozyme, which digest bacteri cell wall antimicrobi enzym
a condit character by damag to platelet and red blood cell and inflamm of the kidney that is caus by uncontrol complement  in individu with inherit defici in complement regulatori protein atyp hemolyt urem syndrom
the sum total of the strength of  of two molecul or cell to one anoth at multipl sites. it is distinct from affinity, which is the strength of  of one site on a molecul to it ligand avid
antimicrobi peptid made by virtual all multicellular organisms. in mammal they are produc by the epithelia of the respiratori and urogenit tracts, skin, and tongu β-defensin
protein complex  as the first step in the classic pathway of complement  c1 complex, c1
an inhibitor protein for c1 that  and in c1r:c1s enzymat ity. defici in this inhibitor protein caus hereditari angioedema through product of vasoact peptid that caus subcutan and laryng swell c1 inhibitor c1inh
complement protein of the classic and lectin pathway that is cleav by the c1 complex c2
complement protein on which all complement  pathway converge. one of the cleavag product of this protein can  coval to microbi surfaces, where it promot destruct by phagocyt c3
enzym complex that cleav c3 to c3b and c3a on the surfac of a pathogen. in the classic and lectin pathway this enzym complex is  from membrane-bound c4b complex with the proteas c2a. in the altern pathway this complex is  from membrane-bound c3b complex with the proteas bb c3 convertas
short-liv altern pathway c3 convertas that is continu produc at a low level in the plasma that can initi  of the altern pathway of complement c3h, 2, obb
the pro-inflammatori cleavag product of c3 that is recogn by specif receptors, and recruit fluid and inflammatori cell to the site of their releas c3a
the cleavag product of c3 that can  coval to microbi surfaces, where it promot destruct by phagocyt c3b
the c5 convertas of the altern pathway of complement  c3b2bb
the c3 convertas of the altern pathway of complement  c3bbb
breakdown product of ic3b that remain attach to the microbi surface, where it can  complement receptor cr2 c3dg
a small fragment of c3b that is remov by factor i and mcp to leav ic3b on the microbi surfac c3f
complement protein of the classic and lectin pathways. this protein is cleav by c1s to c4b, which  part of the classic c3 convertas c4
a complement-regulatori protein that in the classic pathway c3 convertas  on host cell by displac c2a from the c4bc2a complex. this complement-regulatori protein  c4b attach to host cells, but cannot  c4b attach to pathogen c4b- protein c4bp
c3 convertas of the classic and lectin pathway of complement  c4b2a
c5 convertas of the classic and lectin pathway of complement  c4b2a3b
enzym complex that cleav c5 to c5a and c5b c5 convertas
pro-inflammatori fragment of c5 that is releas by cleavag dure complement ation. it is recogn by specif receptors, and recruit fluid and inflammatori cell to the site of their releas c5a
the cell-surfac receptor for the pro-inflammatori c5a fragment of complement, present on macrophag and neutrophil c5a receptor
fragment of c5 that initi the at of the membrane-attack complex mac c5b
non-sign decoy receptor for c5a express by phagocyt c5l2 gpr77
complement protein that act with c5b to  the membrane-attack complex, produc a pore that lead to lysi of the target cell c6, c7, c8, c9
a metalloproteinas that in c3a and c5a. cpn defici caus a condit of recurr angioedema carboxypeptidas n cpn
famili of antimicrobi peptid that in human has one member cathelicidin
a cathepsin l inhibitor cathelin
cell-surfac protein that protect host cell from complement damag by   of c9 to the c5b678 complex, thus prevent mac at cd59, protectin
the complex of  complement compon c4b2a, which cleav c3 to c3b on pathogen surfac in the classic pathway of complement  classic c3 convertas
the complement- pathway that is initi by c1  either direct to bacteri surfac or to antibodi bound to the bacteria, thus flag the bacteria as foreign classic pathway
a famili of calcium-depend sugar- protein lectin contain collagen-lik sequences. an exampl is mannose- lectin mbl collectin
protein that control complement  and prevent complement from be  on the surfac of host cell complement regulatori protein
a set of plasma protein that act togeth as a defens against pathogen in extracellular spaces. the pathogen becom coat with complement protein that facilit it remov by phagocyt and that can also kill certain pathogen directly.  of the complement system can be initi in sever differ way complement system
a receptor express by phagocyt cell that  to c3b. it stimul phagocytosi and inhibit c3 convertas at on host-cel surfac cr1 cd35
complement receptor that is part of the b-cell co-receptor complex. it  to antigen coat with breakdown product of c3b, especi c3dg, and, by cross-link the b-cell receptor, enhanc sensit to antigen at least 100-fold. it is also the receptor use by the epstein–barr virus to infect b cell cr2 cd21
a β2 integrin that act both as an adhes molecul and as a complement receptor. on phagocyt this β2 integrin  ic3b, a breakdown product of c3b on pathogen surfaces, and stimul phagocytosi cr3 cd11b:cd18
a β2 integrin that act both as an adhes molecul and as a complement receptor. on phagocyt this β2 integrin  ic3b, a breakdown product of c3b on pathogen surfaces, and stimul phagocytosi cr4 cd11c:cd18
a\xa0compl receptor that  to in  of c3b crig complement receptor of the immunoglobulin famili
α-defensin antimicrobi peptid made by the paneth cell of the small intestin cryptdin
larg class of carbohydrate- protein that requir ca, 2+, for ing, includ mani that function in innat immun c-type lectin
diseas caus by defect in, cftr, gene, lead to abnorm thick mucus and caus serious recurr infect of the lung cystic fibrosi
a cell-surfac protein that protect cell from lysi by complement. it absenc caus the diseas paroxysm nocturn hemoglobinuria decay-acceler factor daf or cd55
toxin deriv from bacteri cell wall releas by damag cells. they can potent induc cytokin synthesi and in larg amount can caus a system reaction call septic shock endotoxin
a protein toxin produc and secret by a bacterium exotoxin
protein in the altern pathway of complement ation, in which it is cleav to ba and an  protease, bb, the latter  to c3b to  the altern pathway c3 convertase, c3bbb factor b
a serin proteas in the altern pathway of complement ation, which cleav factor b into ba and bb factor d
complement-regulatori protein in plasma that  c3b and compet with factor b to displac bb from the convertas factor h
a protein produc by the pathogen, neisseria meningitidis, that recruit factor h to it membrane, therebi in c3b deposit on it surface, and evad destruct by complement factor h  protein fhbp
complement-regulatori proteas in plasma that cleav c3b to the inact deriv ic3b, thus prevent the at of a c3 convertas factor i
a genet determin lack of the complement-regulatori protein factor i. this  in uncontrol complement ation, so that complement protein rapid becom depleted. those with the defici suffer repeat bacteri infections, especi with ubiquit pyogen bacteria factor i defici
plasma protein releas by  neutrophil that stabil the c3 convertas c3bbb of the altern pathway factor p properdin
carbohydrate- protein that can initi the lectin pathway of complement ation. they are member of the collectin famili and  to the, n, -acetylglucosamin present on the surfac of some pathogen ficolin
short-liv altern pathway c3 convertase, c3h, 2, 0bb, that is continu produc at a low level in the plasma that can initi  of the altern pathway of complement fluid-phas c3 convertas
a glycolipid modif of protein that can allow attach to host membran without the requir of a transmembran protein domain glycosylphosphatidylinositol gpi tail
a larg class of seven-span transmembran cell-surfac receptor that associ with intracellular heterotrimer g protein after ligand ing, and signal by  of the g protein. import exampl are the chemokin receptor g-protein-coupl receptor gpcrs
bacteria that fail to retain crystal violet stain follow alcohol wash due to a thin peptidoglycan layer gram-neg bacteria
a genet defici of the c1 inhibitor of the complement system. in the absenc of c1 inhibitor, spontan  of the complement system can caus diffus fluid leakag from blood vessels, the most serious consequ of which is swell of the larynx, lead to suffoc hereditari angioedema hae
an antimicrobi c-type lectin secret by intestin cell in humans. also known as regiiiα hip/pap
antimicrobi peptid constitut produc by the parotid, sublingual, and submandibular gland in the oral cavity.  against pathogen fungi such as, cryptococcus neoans, and, candida albicans, histatin
refer to effector protein in the blood or bodi fluids, such as antibodi in adapt immunity, or complement protein in innat immun humor
inact complement fragment produc by cleavag of c3b ic3b
lipid-rich secretori organell in keratinocyt and lung pneumocyt that releas β-defensin into the extracellular space lamellar bodi
a carbohydrate- protein lectin
complement  pathway that is trigger by mannose- lectin mbls or ficolin bound to bacteria lectin pathway
the surfac lipopolysaccharid of gram-neg bacteria, which stimul tlr-4 on macrophag and dendrit cell lipopolysaccharid lps
antimicrobi enzym that degrad bacteri cell wall lysozym
mannose- protein present in the blood. it can opson pathogen bear mannos on their surfac and can  the complement system via the lectin pathway, an import part of innat immun mannose- lectin mbl
serin proteas of the classic and lectin pathway of complement  that  to c1q, ficolins, and mannose- lectin, and function in their  to cleav c4 masp-1, masp-2, masp-3
effector pathway of complement base on at of the membrane-attack complex mac membran attack
protein complex compos of c5b to c9 that assembl a membrane-span hydrophil pore on pathogen surfaces, caus cell lysi membrane-attack complex mac
a complement regulatori protein, a host-cel membran protein that act in conjunct with factor i to cleav c3b to it inact deriv ic3b and thus prevent convertas at membran cofactor of proteolysi mcp or cd46
high glycosyl cell-surfac proteins. mucin-lik molecul are bound by l-selectin in lymphocyt home mucin
mucus-co epithelia line the bodi intern caviti that connect with the outsid such as the gut, airways, and vagin tract mucos epithelia
sticki solut of protein secret by goblet cell of intern epithelia,  a protect layer on the epitheli surfac mucus
antibodi produc by the immun system in the appar absenc of ani infection. they have a broad specif for self and microbi antigens, can react with mani pathogens, and can  complement natur antibodi
proteolyt enzym store in the granul of neutrophil that is involv in the process of antimicrobi peptid neutrophil elastas
special epitheli cell at the base of the crypt in the small intestin that secret antimicrobi peptid paneth cell
a diseas in which complement regulatori protein are defective, so that  of complement  to red blood cell lead to episod of spontan hemolysi paroxysm nocturn hemoglobinuria
the origin or caus of the patholog of a diseas pathogenesi
microorgan that typic caus diseas when it infect a host pathogen microorgan
a compon of bacteri cell wall that is recogn by certain receptor of the innat immun system peptidoglycan
the intern of particul matter by cell by a process of engulfment, in which the cell membran surround the material, eventu  an intracellular vesicl phagosom contain the ingest materi phagocytosi
outer membran protein of, neisseria meningitidis, that  c4bp, therebi in c3b deposit on it surfac pora
granul in neutrophil that correspond to lysosom and contain antimicrobi peptid such as defensin and other antimicrobi agent primari granul
inact precursor  of a polypeptid or peptide, which requir proteolyt process to produc the  peptid propeptid
plasma protein releas by  neutrophil that stabil the c3 convertas c3bbb of the altern pathway properdin factor p
an antimicrobi protein of the c-type lectin family, produc by paneth cell in the gut in mice regiiiγ
type of granul in neutrophil that store certain antimicrobi peptid secondari granul
antimicrobi enzym present in tear and saliva and also secret by the paneth cell of the gut secretori phospholipas a2
class of protein that inhibit various proteases, origin refer to those specif to serin proteas serin proteas inhibitor serpin
plasma protein that  incomplet  mac complexes, such as c5b67, prevent bystand complement damag to host membran s-protein vitronectin
staphylococc protein that inhibit the  of the classic and altern c3 convertases, promot the evas of destruct by complement staphylococc complement inhibitor scin
staphylococc protein that  the  of the antibodi fc region with c1, therebi prevent complement  staphylococc protein a spa
staphylococc proteas that cleav immunoglobulin bound to it surface, therebi prevent complement  staphylokinas
acute-phas protein that help protect the epitheli surfac of the lung against infect surfact protein a and d sp-a and sp-d
homolog of complement compon c3 that are found in insect and are thought to have some function in insect innat immun thioester-contain protein tep
the low-level generat of c3b continu occur in the blood in the absenc of infect tickov
describ a diseas of anim that can be transmit to human zoonot
an inact  of an enzyme, usual a protease, that must be modifi in some way, for exampl by select cleavag of the protein chain, befor it can becom  zymogen
a receptor belong to the signal lymphocyt  molecul slam famili express by nk cells, which  to cd48, anoth slam receptor. these signal through sap and fyn to promot surviv and prolifer 2b4
on nk cells, a receptor whose stimul  in  of the cell cytotox   receptor
a transcript factor  as one of the outcom of intracellular signal by antigen receptor of lymphocyt  protein 1 ap-1
protein with innat immun function whose product is increas in the presenc of an infection. they circul in the blood and particip in earli phase of host defens against infection. an exampl is mannose- lectin acute-phas protein
a member of pyhin subfamili of nlr nod-lik receptor famili contain an n-termin hin domain. it  caspas 1 in respons to viral double-strand dna aim2 absent in melanoma 2
inorgan aluminum salt for exampl aluminum phosphat and aluminum hydroxide; they act as adjuv when mix with antigen and are one of the few adjuv permit for use in human alum
the kill of antibody-co target cell by cell with fc receptor that recogn the constant region of the bound antibody. most of this kill is mediat by nk cell that have the fc receptor fcγriii on their surfac antibody-depend cell-medi cytotox adcc
an embryon region in which hematopoiet cell aris dure develop aorta-gonad-mesonephro agm
an adaptor protein contain pyrin and card domain involv in  caspas 1 in the inflammasom asc pycard
describ a cytokin or other biolog  molecul act on the cell that produc it autocrin
diseas due to unregul inflamm in the absenc of infection; they can have a varieti of causes, includ inherit genet defect autoinflammatori diseas
cell-surfac protein on special antigen-pres cell such as dendrit cells, which are the major co-stimulatori molecul for t cells. these cell surfac protein are close relat member of the immunoglobulin superfamili and both  to the cd28 and ctla-4 protein on t cell b7 molecules, b7.1 and b7.2
a c-type lectin express select as a receptor on the surfac of human plasmacytoid dendrit cell bdca-2 blood dendrit cell antigen 2
an inherit granulomat diseas caus by gain-of-funct mutat in the, nod2, gene blau syndrom
a vasoact peptid that is produc as a  of tissu damag and act as an inflammatori mediat bradykinin
a process occur in the nucleus in which the modifi purin 7-methylguanosin is ad to the 5′ phosphat of the first nucleotid of the rna transcript cap
an initi caspas  by various receptor that  the process of apoptosi caspas 8
this caspas is homolog to human capsas 4 and 5. it express is induc by tlr signaling. intracellular lps can direct  it, lead to pyroptosi caspas 11
a protein domain present in some receptor tail that can dimer with other card-domain-contain proteins, includ caspases, thus recruit them into signal pathway caspas recruit domain card
a famili of cystein proteas that cleav protein at aspart acid residues. they have import role in apoptosi and in the process of cytokin pro-polypeptid caspas
one of the two main class of chemokines, distinguish by two adjac cystein c near the amino terminus cc chemokin
a cell-adhes molecul found both on lymphocyt and at endotheli cell junctions. interact of this molecul with itself is thought to enabl leukocyt to leav blood vessel and enter tissu cd31
a transmembran tyrosin phosphatas found on all leukocytes. it is express in differ iso on differ cell types, includ the differ subtyp of t cells. also call leukocyt common antigen, it is a generic marker for hematopoiet deriv cells, with the except of erythrocyt cd45
a receptor belong to the signal lymphocyt  molecul slam famili express by nk cells, which  to 2b4, anoth slam receptor. these signal through sap and fyn to promot surviv and prolifer cd48
a c-type lectin that is a subunit of the klr-type receptor of nk cell cd94
cell-surfac protein of sever differ type that mediat the  of one cell to other cell or to extracellular matrix proteins. integrins, selectins, and member of the immunoglobulin gene superfamili such as icam-1 are among the cell-adhes molecul import in the oper of the immun system cell-adhes molecul
a cytosol enzym that is  by double-strand dna to  cyclic guanosin monophosphate-adenosin monophosph cgas cyclic gamp synthas
cellular movement occur in respons to chemic signal in the environ chemotaxi
an immunodefici in which multipl granuloma  as a  of defect elimin of bacteria by phagocyt cells. it is caus by defect in the nadph oxidas system of enzym that generat the superoxid radic involv in bacteri kill chronic granulomat diseas cgd
a group of receptor for the hematopoietin superfamili of cytokines. these includ receptor use the common γ chain for il-2, il-4, il-7, il-15, and il-21, and a common β chain for gm-csf, il-3, and il-5 class i cytokin receptor
a group of heterodimer receptor for a famili of cytokin that includ interferon ifn-α, ifn-β, ifn-γ, and il-10 class ii cytokin receptor
the major  of monocyt in circul capabl of recruit to site of inflamm and differenti into macrophag classic monocyt
a collect of proteas and other protein in the blood that trigger blood clot when blood vessel are damag coagul system
a transmembran polypeptid cd131 that is a common subunit for receptor of the cytokin il-3, il-5, and gm-csf common β chain
a transmembran polypeptid chain cd132 that is common to a subgroup of cytokin receptor common γ chain γc
the lineag of dendrit cell that main particip in antigen present to, and  of, naiv t cell convent or classic dendrit cell cdcs
cell-surfac receptor on naiv lymphocyt through which the cell receiv signal addit to those receiv through the antigen receptor, and which are necessari for the full  of the lymphocyte. exampl are cd30 and cd40 on b cells, and cd27 and cd28 on t cell co-stimulatori receptor
an acute-phas protein that  to phosphocholine, a constitu of the surfac c-polysaccharid of the bacterium, streptococcus pneumoniae, and of mani other bacteria, thus opson them for uptak by phagocyt c-re protein
chronic inflammatori bowel diseas thought to  from an abnorm overrespons to the commens gut microbiota crohn diseas
one of the two main class of chemokines, distinguish by a cys-x-ci motif near the amino terminus cxc chemokin
cyclic dimer of guanyl and/or adenyl monophosph that are produc by various bacteria as second messeng and detect by sting cyclic dinucleotid cdns
a nonessenti glycoprotein of cytomegalovirus that is recogn by innat receptor express by nk cell cytomegalovirus ul16 protein
signal chain contain itam that are associ with the tail of some  receptor on nk cell dap10, dap12
a candid dna sensor of the rlr famili that appear to signal through the sting pathway ddx41 dead box polypeptid 41
protein-interact domain origin discov in protein involv in program cell death or apoptosis. as part of the intracellular domain of some adaptor proteins, death domain are involv in transmit pro-inflammatori and/or pro-apoptot signal death effector domain ded
a phagocyt receptor on neutrophil and macrophag that recogn β-1,3-link glucans, which are common compon of fungal cell wall dectin-1
ligand for the toll-lik receptor tlr1:tlr2 and tlr2:tlr6 diacyl and triacyl lipoprotein
the movement of blood cells, particular leukocytes, from the blood across blood vessel wall into tissu diapedesi
blood clot occur simultan in small vessel throughout the bodi in respons to dissemin tnf-α, which lead to the massiv consumpt of clot proteins, so that the patient blood cannot clot appropriately. seen in septic shock dissemin intravascular coagul dic
a chemic structur that is a replic intermedi of mani virus that is recogn by tlr-3 double-strand rna dsrna
member of the tnfr superfamili express by mani cell type that can be  by the trail to induc apoptosi dr4, dr5
refer to chang that take place in infect or malign cell that alter express of various surfac receptor that can be detect by the innat immun system dysregul self
diseas associ with  nod2 mutat character by inflamm in tissu such as liver early-onset sarcoidosi
swell caus by the entri of fluid and cell from the blood into the tissues; it is one of the cardin featur of inflamm edema
describ the action of a biolog  molecul such as a hormon or cytokin that is secret by one tissu into the blood and act on a distant tissu endocrin
cytokin that can induc a rise in bodi temperatur endogen pyrogen
the chang that occur in the endotheli wall of small blood vessel as a  of inflammation, such as increas permeabl and the increas product of cell-adhes molecul and cytokin endotheli 
a transcript factor involv in develop and function of certain type of nk cells, ilcs, and cd8 t cell eomesodermin
subunit of eukaryot initi factor that help  the preiniti complex that begin protein translat from mrna. when it is phosphoryl by pkr, protein translat is suppress eukaryot initi factor 2 eif2α
multisubunit complex that act in at of the 43s preiniti complex. it can  interferon-induc transmembran ifit protein which therebi suppress translat of viral protein eukaryot initi factor 3 eif3
ani substanc origin outsid the bodi that can induc fever, such as the bacteri lipopolysaccharid lps exogen pyrogen
the movement of cell or fluid from within blood vessel into the surround tissu extravas
an episod autoinflammatori diseas caus by mutat in the gene, nlrp3, , encod nlrp3, a member of the nod-lik receptor famili and a compon of the inflammasome. the symptom are induc by exposur to cold famili cold autoinflammatori syndrom fcas
a protein that is the major constitu of the flagellum, the tail-lik structur use in bacteri locomot flagellin
a pattern recognit receptor for the peptid fmet-leu-phe, which is specif to bacteria, on neutrophil and macrophages. fmet-leu-ph act as a chemoattract fmet-leu-ph fmlf receptor
a product of degrad of the peptidoglycan of gram-neg bacteria. it is sens by nod1 γ-glutamyl diaminopimel acid ie-dap
diseas caus by monosodium urat crystal deposit in the cartilagin tissu of joints, caus inflammation. urat crystal  the nlrp3 inflammasome, which induc inflammatori cytokin gout
intracellular gtpase that act as molecular switch in signal pathways. they  gtp to induc their  conation, which is lost when gto is hydrolyz to gdp g protein
protein that act as the pathogen-recognit protein in the toll pathway of immun defens in, drosophila, gram-neg  protein gnbps
a cytokin involv in the growth and differenti of cell of the myeloid lineage, includ dendrit cells, monocyt and tissu macrophages, and granulocyt granulocyte-macrophag stimul factor gm-csf
a serin proteas of, drosophila, that function downstream of peptidoglycan-recognit protein pgrps and gram-neg  protein gnbps to initi the proteolyt cascad lead to toll  grass
the subtyp of innat lymphoid cell ilc character by ifn-γ product group 1 ilc ilc1
protein that can remov the bound gdp from g proteins, thus allow gtp to  and  the g protein guanin nucleotid exchang factor gef
substanc that can caus hemagglutination, such as human antibodi that recogn the abo blood group antigen on red blood cells, or the influenza virus hemagglutinin, a glycoprotein that function in viral fusion with endosom membran hemagglutinin ha
larg famili of structur relat cytokin that includ growth factor and mani interleukin with role in both adapt and innat immun hematopoietin superfamili
a cytoplasm protein that constitut associ with the nfκb homodimer, compos of p50 and p65 subunits. when iκb is phosphoryl by  ikk iκb kinase, iκb becom degrad and allow the nfκb dimer to be releas as an  transcript factor iκb
the ikb kinase, ikk, is a multisubunit protein complex compos of ikkα, ikkβ, and ikkγ or nemo iκb kinas ikk
cell-adhes molecul of the immunoglobulin superfamili that  to the leukocyt integrin cd11a:cd18 lfa-1. they are crucial in the  of lymphocyt and other leukocyt to antigen-pres cell and endotheli cell icam
a member of the pyhin subfamili of nlr nod-lik receptor famili contain an n-termin hin domain. it  the sting pathway in respons to double-strand dna ifi16 ifn-γ-induc protein 16
a small famili of host protein induc by interferon that regul protein translat dure infect in part by interact with eif3 ifit ifn-induc protein with tetratricoid repeat
a small famili of host transmembran protein induc by interferon that function in the cell vesicular compart to restrain various step in viral replic ifitm interferon-induc transmembran protein
antivir cytokin produc by a wide varieti of cell in respons to infect by a virus, and which also help healthi cell resist viral infection. they act through the same receptor, which signal through a janus-famili tyrosin kinase. also known as the type i interferon ifn-α, ifn-β
a cytokin of the interferon structur famili produc by effector cd4 t, h, 1 cells, cd8 t cells, and nk cells. it primari function is the  of macrophages, and it act through a differ receptor from that of the type\xa0i interferon ifn-γ
also call type iii interferons, this famili includ il-28a, il-28b, and il-29, which  a common receptor express by a limit set of epitheli tissu ifn-λ
receptor compos of a uniqu il-28rα subunit and the β\xa0subunit of the il-10 receptor that recogn il-28a, il-28b, and il-29 ifn-λ receptor
a multisubunit protein complex compos of ikkα, ikkβ, and ikkγ or nemo ikk
a kinas that interact with tbk1 tank- kinas 1 in the phosphoryl of irf3 downstream of tlr-3 signal ikkε
one of four major famili of cytokines, this famili contain 11 cytokin that are larg pro-inflammatori in function il-1 famili
a cytokin produc by  macrophag that has mani effect in the immun response, includ the  of vascular endothelium,  of lymphocytes, and the induct of fever il-1β
acytokin produc by  macrophag and which has mani effects, includ lymphocyt ation, the stimul of antibodi production, and the induct of fever il-6
these are a class of innat immun cell have overlap characterist with t cell but lack an antigen receptor. they aris in sever groups, which exhibit properti rough similar to t, h, 1, t, h, 2, t, h, 17, and cd8 t cell ilc innat lymphoid cell
a defens against gram-neg bacteria in insect that  in the product of antimicrobi peptid such as diptericin, attacin, and cecropin imd immunodefici signal pathway
protein contain one or more immunoglobulin-lik domains, which are protein domain structur similar to those of immunoglobulin immunoglobulin-lik protein
sequenc motif in the signal chain of receptors, such as antigen receptor on lymphocytes, that are the site of tyrosin phosphoryl after receptor ation, lead to recruit of other signal protein immunoreceptor tyrosine-bas  motif itam
sequenc motif in the signal chain of inhibitori receptor that are site of tyrosin phosphorylation, lead to inhibitori signaling, such as through recruit of phosphatas that remov phosphat group ad by tyrosin kinas immunoreceptor tyrosine-bas inhibit motif itim
a pro-inflammatori protein complex that is  after stimul of the intracellular nod-lik receptors. product of an  caspas in the complex process cytokin proprotein into  cytokin inflammasom
an   of monocyt produc a varieti of pro-inflammatori cytokin inflammatori monocyt
on nk cells, receptor whose stimul  in suppress of the cell cytotox  inhibitori receptor
heterodimer cell-surfac protein involv in cell–cel and cell–matrix interactions. they are import in adhes interact between lymphocyt and antigen-pres cell and in lymphocyt and leukocyt adher to blood vessel wall and migrat into tissu integrin
a famili of nine transcript factor that regul a varieti of immun responses. for example, irf3 and irf7 are  as a  of signal from some tlrs. sever irf promot express of the gene for type i interferon interferon regulatori factor irf
a categori of gene induc by interferons, which includ mani that promot innat defens against pathogens, such as oligoadenyl synthetase, pkr, and the mx, ifits, and ifitm protein interferon stimul gene isg
this receptor recogn ifn-α and ifn-β to  stat1 and stat2 and induc express of mani isg interferon-α receptor ifnar
sever relat famili of cytokin origin name for their interfer of viral replication. are antivir in their effects; ifn-γ has other role in the immun system interferon ifn
a generic name for cytokin produc by leukocytes. the more general term cytokin is use in this book, but this term is use in the name of specif cytokin interleukin il
protein kinas that are part of the intracellular signal pathway lead from tlrs irak1, irak4
an immunodefici character by recurr bacteri infections, caus by in mutat in the, irak4, gene that  in a  in tlr signal irak4 defici
a member of the irf famili of transcript factor that interact with  stat1 and stat2 to  the complex call isgf3, which induc transcript of mani isg irf9
a complex  by stat1, stat2 and irf9, which induc transcript of mani isg isgf3
enzym of the jak–stat intracellular signal pathway that link mani cytokin receptor with gene transcript in the nucleus. the kinas phosphoryl stat protein in the cytosol, which then move to the nucleus and  a varieti of gene janus kinas jak famili
in polyubiquitin chains, the coval ligat of lysin 63 amino group of one ubiquitin protein with the carboxi terminus of a second ubiquitin. this type of linkag is most associ with  of signal by at of a scaffold recogn by signal adaptor such as tab1/2 k63-linkag
larg famili of receptor present on nk cells, through which the cell cytotox  is controlled. the famili contain both  and inhibitori receptor killer cell immunoglobulin-lik receptor kir
larg famili of receptor present on nk cells, through which the cell cytotox  is controlled. the famili contain both  and inhibitori receptor killer cell lectin-lik receptor klrs
an enzymat cascad of plasma protein that is trigger by tissu damag to produc sever inflammatori mediat kinin system
phagocyt line the hepat sinusoids; they remov debri and die cell from the blood, but are not known to elicit immun respons kupffer cell
an endopeptidas produc by, bacillus anthracis, that cleav nlrp1, induc cell death within the infect cell, typic a macrophag lethal factor
protein motif that are repeat in seri to , for example, the extracellular portion of toll-lik receptor leucine-rich repeat lrr
a class of immunodefici diseas in which the abil of leukocyt to enter site infect by extracellular pathogen is affected, impar elimin of infection. there are sever differ causes, includ a defici of the common β chain of the leukocyt integrin leukocyt adhes defici lad
diseas caus by defect in the product of sulfat sialyl-lewis, x, that prevent neutrophil from interact with p- and e-selectin, elimin their abil to migrat proper to site of infect leukocyt adhes defici type 2
cell-adhes molecul on leukocyt that were initi defin use monoclon antibodies. leukocyt function antigen lfas
a larg cluster of immunoglobulin-lik receptor gene that includ the killer cell immunoglobulin-lik receptor kir gene leukocyt receptor complex lrc
the presenc of increas number of leukocyt in the blood. it is common seen in acut infect leukocytosi
lipid mediat of inflamm that are deriv from arachidon acid. they are produc by macrophag and other cell leukotrien
a member of the rlr family, it cooper with rig-i and mda-5 in the recognit of viral rna lgp2
compon of bacteri cell wall that are recogn by toll-lik receptor lipoteicho acid
protein in blood and extracellular fluid that  bacteri lipopolysaccharid lps shed from bacteria lps- protein
a famili of c-type lectin express by mouse, but not human, nk cells. these can be either  or inhibitori in function ly49 receptor
an adaptor protein that associ with myd88 in signal by tlr‑2/1, tlr-2/6, and tlr-4 mal
a receptor on macrophag that is specif for mannose-contain carbohydr that occur on the surfac of pathogen but not on host cell mannos receptor mr
a card-contain adaptor protein attach to the outer mitochondri membran that signal downstream of rig-i and mda-5 to  irf3 and nfκb in respons to viral infect mav mitochondri antivir signal protein
accessori protein for tlr-4  md-2
this protein contain an rna helicase-lik domain similar to rig-i, and sens double-strand rna for detect of intracellular viral infect mda-5 melanoma differentiation-associ 5, also helicard
an enzym that transfer a methyl group to the 2′ hydroxyl of the first and second ribos group in mrna. virus that acquir this enzym can produc cap-1 and cap-2 on their transcript and therebi evad restrict by ifit1 2′-o-methyltransferas mtase
an immunodefici diseas in which mhc class\xa0i molecul are not present on the cell surface, usual as a  of an\xa0inherit defici of either tap-1 or tap-2 mhc class i defici
mhc class ib protein that are induc by stress, infection, or trans in mani cell type and are recogn by nkg2d mic-a, mic-b
an embryon deriv  of tissu macrophag in the central nervous system that is depend on il-34 for local self-renew throughout life microgli cell
refer to the loss of cell-surfac molecul that engag with inhibitori receptor on nk cells,  in nk-cell  miss self
a seri of protein kinas that becom phosphoryl and  on cellular stimul by a varieti of ligands, and lead to new gene express by phosphoryl key transcript factors. the mapk are part of mani signal pathways, especi those lead to cell proliferation, and have differ name in differ organ mitogen- protein kinas mapk
a mutat in the shp-1 protein phosphatas that impair the function of some inhibitori receptors, such as ly49,  in over- of various cells, includ nk cell motheaten
a protein involv in dna damag and repair mechan that also recogn cytoplasm dsdna and can  the sting pathway mre11a meitot recombin 11 homolog a
an inherit episod autoinflammatori diseas caus by mutat in the gene encod nlrp3, a compon of the inflammasom muckle–wel syndrom
a compon of the peptidoglycan of most bacteria that is recogn by the intracellular sensor nod2 muramyl dipeptid mdp
interferon-induc protein requir for cellular resist to influenza virus replic mx myxoma resist protein
an adaptor protein that function in signal by all tlr protein except tlr3 myd88
multicompon enzym complex that is assembl and  in the phagolysosom membran in stimul phagocytes. it generat superoxid in an oxygen-requir reaction call the respiratori burst nadph oxidas
an nlr protein that, togeth with nlrc4, recogn the prgj protein of the, salmonella typhimurium, type iii inject system to  an inflammasom pathway in respons to infect naip2
an nlr protein that, togeth with nlrc4, recogn intracellular flagellin to  an inflammasom pathway in respons to infect naip5
 receptor on nk cell that recogn infect cell and stimul cell kill by the nk cell natur cytotox receptor ncrs
this ikb kinas is a multisubunit protein complex compos of ikkα, ikkβ, and ikkγ nemo
abnorm low level of neutrophil in the blood neutropenia
a meshwork of nuclear chromatin that is releas into the extracellular space by neutrophil undergo apoptosi at site of infection, serv as a scaffold that trap extracellular bacteria to enhanc their phagocytosi by other phagocyt neutrophil extracellular trap net
a heterodimer transcript factor  by the stimul of toll-lik receptor and also by antigen receptor signal compos of p50 and p65 subunit nfκb
a transcript factor import dure the develop of sever type of immun cell includ certain type of nk cell nfil3
a re molecular gas speci produc by cells—particular macrophages—dur infection, that is toxic to bacteria and intracellular microb nitric oxid
a cluster of gene that encod a famili of receptor on nk cell nk receptor complex nkc
famili of c-type lectin that suppli one of the subunit of klr-famili receptor on nk cell nkg2
 c-type lectin receptor on nk cells, cytotox t cells, and γ:δ t cell that recogn the stress-respons protein mic-a and mic-b nkg2d
an nlr famili member that cooper with naip2 and naip5 nlrc4
a group of 14 nod-lik receptor nlr protein that contain a pyrin domain and function in the at of a signal complex call the inflammasom nlrp famili
a member of the famili of intracellular nod-lik receptor protein that have pyrin domains. it act as a sensor of cellular damag and is part of the inflammasom nlrp3
a subgroup of nlr protein that contain a card domain which is use for  of downstream signal nod subfamili
intracellular protein of the nod subfamili that contain a leucine-rich repeat lrr domain that  compon of bacteri cell wall to  the nfκb pathway and initi inflammatori respons nod1, nod2
an altern  of the inflammasom that is independ of caspas 1, but instead reli on caspas 11 mice or caspas 4 or 5 human non-canon inflammasom
an influenza a virus protein that inhibit trim25, an intermedi signal protein downstream of the viral sensor rig-i and mda-5, therebi promot evas of innat immun non-structur protein 1 ns1
a type of conserv domain origin recogn in atp- cassett abc transport present present in a larg number of proteins, but which also mediat protein homooligomer nucleotide- oligomer domain nod
enzym produc in respons to stimul of cell by interferon. it synthes unusu nucleotid polymers, which in turn  a ribonucleas that degrad viral rna oligoadenyl synthetas
describ a cytokin or other biolog  molecul act on cell near to those that produc it paracrin
a  of circul monocyt that adher to and survey the vascular endothelium, distinguish from classic monocyt by it low express of ly6c patrol monocyt
a famili of acute-phas protein  of five ident subunits, to which c-re protein and serum amyloid protein belong pentraxin
a famili of, drosophila, protein that  peptidoglycan from bacteri cell wall that serv to initi the proteolyt cascad of the toll pathway peptidoglycan-recognit protein pgrps
intracellular vesicl  by the fusion of a phagosom contain ingest materi and a lysosome, and in which the ingest materi is broken down phagolysosom
intracellular vesicl  when particul materi is ingest by a phagocyt phagosom
enzym involv in intracellular signal pathways. it phosphoryl the membran lipid phosphatidylinositol 3,4-bisphosph pip, 2, to  phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosph pip, 3, , which can recruit signal protein contain pleckstrin homolog ph domain to the membran phosphatidylinositol 3-kinas pi 3-kinas
serine/threonin kinas  by ifn-α and ifn-β. it phosphoryl the eukaryot protein synthesi initi factor eif-2, inhibit translat and thus contribut to the inhibit of viral replic pkr
a distinct lineag of dendrit cell that secret larg amount of interferon on  by pathogen and their product via receptor such as toll-lik receptor plasmacytoid dendrit cell pdcs
a lipid mediat that  the blood clot cascad and sever other compon of the innat immun system platelet- factor paf
polym of ubiquitin coval link from lysin residu within one ubiquitin monom to the carboxi terminus of a second ubiquitin polyubiquitin chain
a guanin exchang factor gef  downstream of small g protein in respons to  of gpcrs such as the fmlp or c5a receptor prex1
a protein compon of the, salmonella typhimurium, type iii secret system inner rod use by the bacterium to infect eukaryot cells. this protein is detect by nlr protein naip2 and nlrc4 prgj
the inact pro- of caspas 1 that is part of the nlrp3 inflammasom pro-caspas 1
tend to induc inflamm pro-inflammatori
an actin- protein that sequest monomer actin. protozoan profilin contain sequenc recogn by tlr-11 and tlr-12 profilin
lipid product of the metabol of arachidon acid that have a varieti of effect on tissues, includ  as inflammatori mediat prostaglandin
a small famili of protein that inhibit stat famili transcript factor protein inhibitor of  stat pia
an atp- ion channel that allow potassium efflux from cell when ated, which can trigger inflammasom  in respons to excess extracellular atp purinerg receptor p2x7
thick yellowish-whit liquid typic found at site of infect with some type of extracellular bacteria, which is compos of the remain of dead neutrophil and other cell pus
capsul bacteria that  in pus at at the site of infection. also call pyogen bacteria pus- bacteria
a famili of four intracellular sensor protein contain an h invers hin domain in place of the lrr domain found in most other nlr proteins. the hin domain function in recognit of cytoplasm dsdna. exampl are aim2 and ifi16 pyhin
capsul bacteria that  in pus at at the site of infection. also call pus- bacteria pyogen bacteria
one of sever protein interact domains, structur relat to but distinct from card, tir, dd, and ded domain pyrin
a  of program cell death that is associ with abund pro-inflammatori cytokin such as il-1β and il-18 produc through inflammasom  pyroptosi
sever murin mhc class ib proteins; these are ortholog of human raet1 famili proteins, includ h60 and mult1, and are ligand for murin nkg2d rae1 retino acid earli induc 1 protein famili
a famili of 10 mhc class ib protein that are ligand for nkg2d, and includ sever ul16- protein ulbp raet1
superoxid anion o, 2, –, and hydrogen peroxid h, 2, o, 2, , produc by phagocyt cell such as neutrophil and macrophag after ingest of microbes, and which help kill the ingest microb re oxygen speci ros
the intern into endosom of molecul bound to cell-surfac receptor receptor-medi endocytosi
a distinct member of the, drosophila, nfκb transcript factor famili that induc the express of sever antimicrobi peptid in respons to gram-neg bacteria relish
an oxygen-requir metabol chang in neutrophil and macrophag that have taken up opson particles, such as complement- or antibody-co bacteria, by phagocytosis. it lead to the product of toxic metabolit that are involv in kill the engulf microorgan respiratori burst
sever distinct small gtpase famili member that regul the actin cytoskeleton in respons to signal through various receptors. examples: rac, rho, and cdc42 rho famili small gtpase protein
a small famili of intracellular viral sensor that use a carboxi termin rna helicase-lik domain in detect of various  of viral rna. these signal through mav to  antivir immunity. exampl includ rig-i, mda-5, and lgp2 rig-i-lik receptor rlrs
a card domain contain serine-threonin kinas that function in signal by nod protein to  the nfκb transcript factor rip2
an e3 ubiquitin ligas involv in signal by rig-i and mda-5 for the  of mav riplet
an intracellular adaptor protein involv in signal by slam signal lymphocyt  molecule. in mutat in this gene caus x-link lymphoprolif xlp syndrom sap slam-associ protein
receptor on macrophag and other cell that  to numer ligands, such as bacteri cell-wal components, and remov them from the blood. the kupffer cell in the liver are particular rich in these receptors. includ sr-a i, sr-a ii, and marco scaveng receptor
famili of cell-adhes molecul on leukocyt and endotheli cell that  to sugar moieti on specif glycoprotein with mucin-lik featur selectin
bacteri infect of the bloodstream. this is a veri serious and frequent fatal condit sepsi
system shock reaction that can follow infect of the bloodstream with endotoxin-produc gram-neg bacteria. it is caus by the system releas of tnf-α and other cytokines. also call endotox shock septic shock
the capac of neutrophil to maintain attach to the vascular endothelium under high rate of flow—or shear—en by special plasma membran extens call sling shear-resist roll
the potenti fatal circulatori collaps caus by the system action of cytokin such as tnf-α shock
the short n-termin peptid sequenc respons for direct newli synthes protein into the secretori pathway signal peptid
a configur of protein and modifications, such as phosphoryl or ubiquitination, that facilit signal by  various enzym and their substrat signal scaffold
normal confin to the nucleus and cytoplasm, this normal molecular  serv as a ligand for tlr-7, tlr-8, and tlr-9 when it is present in endosomes, as dure part of a viral life cycl single-strand rna ssrna
a famili of relat cell-surfac receptor that mediat adhes between lymphocytes, that includ 2b4, cd84, ly106, ly9, and cracc slam signal lymphocyt  molecul
special plasma membran extens that enabl neutrophil to stay attach to the vascular endothelium under high rate of flow or shear sling
receptor-associ protein tyrosin kinas character by src-homolog protein domain sh1, sh2, and sh3. the sh1 domain contain the kinase, the sh2 domain can  phosphotyrosin residues, and the sh3 domain can interact with proline-rich region in other proteins. in t cell and b cell they are involv in relay signal from the antigen receptor src-famili protein tyrosin kinas
a famili of seven transcript factor  by mani cytokin and growth factor receptor stat signal transduc and  of transcript
damag to tissu due to trauma, ischemia, metabol stress, or autoimmunity, bear mani immun featur similar to infect steril injuri
a dimer protein complex in the cytoplasm anchor to the er membran that function in intracellular sens for infection. it is  by specif cyclic di-nucleotid to  tbk1, which phosphoryl irf3 to induc transcript of type i interferon gene sting stimul of interferon gene
a sulfat tetrasaccharid carbohydr structur attach to mani cell surfac proteins, it  the p-selectin and e-selectin molecul on the surfac of cells, such as neutrophils, that mediat interact with the endothelium sulfat sialyl-lewis, x
an enzym that convert the superoxid ion produc in the phagolysosom into hydrogen peroxide, a substrat for further re antimicrobi metabolit superoxid dismutas sod
regulatori protein that interact with jak kinas to inhibit signal by  receptor suppressor of cytokin signal soc
an adaptor complex that  k63 link polyubiquitin chains. this complex along with tak1, target tak1 to signal scaffold where it phosphoryl substrat such as ikkα tab1, tab2
a proteas respons for cleavag of the membrane-associ  of tnf-α, allow cytokin releas into it solubl  that can enter the system circul tace tnf-α-convert enzym
a serine-threonin kinas that is  by phosphoryl by the irak complex, and that  downstream target such as ikkβ and mapk tak1
an intracellular protein involv in the linkag of  integrins, such as lfa-1, to the cytoskeleton to allow chang in cellular motil and migration, such as in the diapedesi of neutrophil across the vascular endothelium talin
a transcript factor  in mani immun cell type but most typic associ with ilc1 and t, h, 1 function tbet
a serine-threonin kinas  dure signal by tlr-3 and mav and serv to phosphoryl and  irf3 for induct of type i interferon gene express tbk1 tank- kinas
a set of sensor protein normal bound to thioredoxin-interact protein txnip. oxid stress caus thioredoxin to releas txnip, which can mediat downstream action thioredoxin trx
domain in the cytoplasm tail of the tlrs and the il-1 receptor, which interact with similar domain in intracellular signal protein tir for toll–il-1 receptor domain
cell-surfac toll-lik receptor that act in a heterodim with tlr-2 to recogn lipoteicho acid and bacteri lipoprotein tlr-1
cell-surfac toll-lik receptor that act in a heterodim with either tlr-1 or tlr-6 to recogn lipoteicho acid and bacteri lipoprotein tlr-2
endosom toll-lik receptor that recogn double-strand viral rna tlr-3
cell-surfac toll-lik receptor that, in conjunct with the accessori protein md-2 and cd14, recogn bacteri lipopolysaccharid and lipoteicho acid tlr-4
cell-surfac toll-lik receptor that recogn the flagellin protein of bacteri flagella tlr-5
cell-surfac toll-lik receptor that act in a heterodim with tlr-2 to recogn lipoteicho acid and bacteri lipoprotein tlr-6
endosom toll-lik receptor that recogn single-strand viral rna tlr-7
endosom toll-lik receptor that recogn single-strand viral rna tlr-8
endosom toll-lik receptor that recogn dna contain unmethyl cpg tlr-9
mous toll-lik receptor that recogn profilin and profilin-lik protein tlr-11, tlr-12
cytokin family, the prototyp of which is tumor necrosi factor-α tnf or tnf-α. it contain both secret for exampl tnf-α and lymphotoxin and membrane-bound for exampl cd40 ligand member tnf famili
famili of cytokin receptors, which includ some that lead to apoptosi of the cell on which they are express for exampl fas and tnfr-i, wherea other lead to  tnf receptor
receptor protein in, drosophila, that  the transcript factor nfκb, lead to the product of antimicrobi peptid toll
an e3 ligas that produc a k63 polyubiquitin signal scaffold in tlr-3 signal to induc type i interferon gene express traf3
an e3 ligas that produc a k63 polyubiquitin signal scaffold in tlr-4 signal to  the nfκb pathway traf6 tumor necrosi factor receptor-associ factor 6
a\xa0memb of the tnf cytokin famili express on the cell surfac of some cells, such as nk cells, that induc cell death in target cell by ligat of the death receptor dr4 and dr5 trail tumor necrosi factor-rel apoptosis-induc ligand
an adaptor protein that pair with trif in signal by tlr-4 tram
an adaptor protein that alon is involv in signal by tlr-3, and that when pair with tram, function in signal by tlr-4 trif
a complex of the e2 ubiquitin ligas ubc13 and cofactor uve1a, that interact with traf6 in  the k63 polyubiquitin signal scaffold in tlr signal downstream of myd88 trika1
an e3 ubiquitin ligas involv in signal by rig-i and mda-5 for the  of mav trim25
the antivir interferon ifn-α and ifn-β type i interferon
the antivir interferon ifn-γ type ii interferon
special appendag of gram-neg bacteria use to aid infect of eukaryot cell by direct secret of effector protein into their cytoplasm type iii secret system t3ss
enzym that remov phosphat group from phosphoryl tyrosin residu on protein tyrosin phosphatas
a mutlipass transmembran protein that is necessari for the normal transport of tlr-3, tlr-7, and tlr-9 from the er, where they are assembled, to the endosome, where they function unc93b1
while mammalian genom have heavili methyl the cytosin within cpg sequences, unmethyl cpg is more typic characterist of bacteri genomes, and is recogn by tlr‑9 when encount in the endosom compart unmethyl cpg dinucleotid
granul within endotheli cell that contain p-selectin weibel–palad bodi
a\xa0syndrom with some featur resembl hyper igm syndrome. it is caus by mutat in the protein nemo, a compon of the nfκb signal pathway. also call nemo defici x-link hypohidrot ectoderm dysplasia and immunodefici
an\xa0immunodefici diseas in which t-cell develop fail at an earli intrathym stage and no product of matur t cell or t-cell depend antibodi occurs. it is due to a defect in a gene that encod the γc chain share by the receptor for sever differ cytokin x-link sever combin immunodefici x-link scid
the dimer of one α and one β chain that make up the antigen-recognit portion of an α:β t-cell receptor α:β heterodim
the strength of  of one molecul to anoth at a singl site, such as the  of a monoval fab fragment of antibodi to a monoval antigen affin
a variant  of a gene; mani gene occur in sever or more differ  within the general popul allel
specif amino acid residu in antigen peptid that determin peptid  specif to mhc class i molecul anchor residu
the  of antigen on the surfac of a cell in the  of peptid fragment bound to mhc molecules. t cell recogn antigen when it is  in this way antigen present
a secondari protein structur compos of two β sheet that fold such that one lie over the other, as in an immunoglobulin fold β sandwich
a secondari protein structur compos of β strand stabil by noncoval interact between backbon amid and carbonyl group β sheet
a secondari protein structur in which the polypeptid backbon of sever consecut amino acid is arrang in a flat, or planar, conation, and often illustr as an arrow β strand
the light chain of the mhc class i proteins, encod outsid the mhc. it  noncoval to the heavi or α chain β, 2, -microglobulin
part of the v domain of immunoglobulin and t-cell receptor that determin their antigen specif and make contact with the specif ligand. these are the most variabl part of antigen receptor, and contribut to the divers of these proteins. there are three such region cdr1, cdr2, and cdr3 in each v domain complementarity-determin region cdrs
antigen structur on a protein antigen that is  from sever separ region in the sequenc of the protein brought togeth by protein folding. antibodi that  these antigen structur  onli nativ fold protein con epitopes, discontinu epitop
type of protein domain that make up the constant region of each chain of an immunoglobulin molecul constant ig domain c domain
antigen structur in a protein that is  by a singl small region of amino acid sequence. antibodi that  these antigen structur can  to the denatur protein. also call a linear epitop continu epitope, linear epitop
chemic interact occur between charg atoms, as in the charg amino acid side chain and an ion in a salt bridg electrostat interact
antibodi fragment compos of a singl antigen- arm of an antibodi without the fc region, produc by cleavag of igg by the enzym papain. it contain the complet light chain plus the amino-termin variabl region and first constant region of the heavi chain, held togeth by an interchain disulfid bond fab fragment
antibodi fragment compos of two link antigen- arm fab fragment without the fc regions, produc by cleavag of igg with the enzym pepsin fab′, 2, fragment
relat invari region that provid a protein scaffold for the hypervari region in the v domain of immunoglobulin and t-cell receptor framework region
antigen receptor carri by a subset of t lymphocyt that is distinct from the α:β t-cell receptor. it is compos of a γ and a δ\xa0chain, which are produc from gene that undergo gene rearrang γ:δ t-cell receptor
ani small molecul that can be recogn by a specif antibodi but cannot by itself elicit an immun response. these molecul must be chemic link to a protein molecul to elicit antibodi and t-cell respons hapten
antibodi produc by some camelid speci compos of heavy-chain dimer without an associ light chain that retain antigen  capac heavy-chain-on igg hcigg
the flexibl domain that join the fab arm to the fc piec in an immunoglobulin. the flexibl of the hing region in igg and iga molecul allow the fab arm to adopt a wide rang of angles, permit  to epitop space variabl distanc apart hing region
chemic interact occur between nearbi hydrophob moieti typic exclud water molecul hydrophob interact
immunoglobulin class compos of α heavi chain that can occur in a monomer and a polymer main dimer . the polymer  of this immunoglobulin class is the main antibodi secret by mucos lymphoid tissu iga
immunoglobulin class compos of δ heavi chain that appear as surfac immunoglobulin on matur b cell igd
immunoglobulin class compos of ε heavi chain that act in defens against parasit infect and in allerg reaction ige
immunoglobulin class compos of γ heavi chain that is the most abund class of immunoglobulin in the plasma igg
immunoglobulin class compos of μ heavi chain that is the first to appear on b cell and the first to be secret igm
protein domain first describ in antibodi molecul but present in mani protein immunoglobulin domain
the tertiari structur of an immunoglobulin domain, compris a sandwich of two β sheet held togeth by a disulfid bond immunoglobulin fold
protein domain structur relat to the immunoglobulin domain immunoglobulin-lik domain ig-lik domain
a  of heavy-chain-on ig molecul made by shark speci immunoglobulin new antigen receptor ignar
larg famili of protein with at least one ig or ig-lik domain, mani of which are involv in antigen recognit and cell–cel interact in the immun system and other biolog system immunoglobulin superfamili
a polypeptid that  in the peptide- cleft of newli synthes mhc class ii protein in the endoplasm reticulum and  other peptid from  there. it is degrad in the endosome, allow for load of antigen peptid there invari chain ii, cd74
an src-famili tyrosin kinas that associ with the cytoplasm tail of cd4 and cd8 and phosphoryl the cytoplasm tail of the t-cell receptor signal chains, thus help to  signal from the t-cell receptor complex onc antigen has bound lck
the fact that a peptid antigen can onli be recogn by a given t cell if it is bound to a particular self mhc molecule. this is a consequ of event that occur dure t-cell develop mhc restrict
a non-class mhc class ib molecul that  certain folic acid metabolit produc by bacteria for recognit by mucos associ invari t mait cell mr1
primarili γ:δ t cell with limit divers present in the mucos immun system that respond to bacteri deriv folat deriv present by the nonclass mhc class ib molecul mr1 mucos associ invari t cell mait
a proteas that cleav the igg antibodi molecul on the amino-termin side of disulfid linkages, produc two fab fragment and one fc\xa0frag papain
a proteas that cleav sever site on the carboxy-termin side of the disulfid linkages, produc the fab′, 2, fragment and sever fragment of the fc region pepsin
the longitudin cleft in the top surfac of an mhc molecul into which the antigen peptid is bound. sometim call the peptide- groov peptide- cleft
chemic interact between a cation e.g. na, +, and the pi-electron system of an aromat moieti pi-cat interact
appli to genes, variabl at a gene locus in which all variant occur at a frequenc greater than 1% polymorph
refer to the heavy-chain-on igg produc by camelid or shark speci that lack the light chain present in convent antibodi single-chain antibodi
murin mhc class ib gene express by  lymphocyt and recogn by a subset of γ:δ t cell t10, t22
the two chain of the α:β t-cell receptor t-cell receptor α tcrα and β tcrβ
refer to the recognit by some adapt immun system e.g. mait, γ:δ t cell of non-peptid ligand express as a consequ of infection, such as various mhc class ib molecul transit immun
a measur of the differ between the amino acid sequenc of differ variant of a given protein. the most variabl protein known are antibodi and t-cell receptor variabl plot
the amino-termin protein domain of the polypeptid chain of immunoglobulin and t-cell receptor, which is the most variabl part of the chain variabl ig domain v domain
phenomenon wherein two gene segment of an immunoglobulin or t-cell receptor can be join onli if one recognit signal sequenc has a 12-base-pair spacer and the other has a 23-base-pair spacer 12/23 rule
enzym that initi somat hypermut and isotyp switch by deamin dna direct at cytosin in immunoglobulin v region or switch regions. loss of this enzym  in patient lead to loss of both ities, caus hyper igm and lack of affin matur ation-induc cytidin deaminas aid
multigen famili of gene contain immunoglobulin domain present in hagfish and lamprey, that possibl repres ancestr predecessor of mammalian antigen receptor agnathan pair receptor resembl ag receptor apar
a class of vertebr compris jawless fish lack adapt immun base on the rag-medi vdj recombination, but possess a distinct system of adapt immun base on somat assembl vlrs agnathan
the total varieti of antibodi in the bodi of an individu antibodi repertoir
a dna repair endonucleas involv in class switch recombin apurinic/apyrimidin endonucleas 1 ape1
an endonucleas involv in the gene rearrang that generat function immunoglobulin and t-cell receptor gene artemi
a diseas character by a stagger gait and multipl disorgan blood vessels, and often accompani by clinic immunodeficiency. it is caus by defect in a protein which is involv in dna repair pathway that are also use in vdj recombin and class-switch recombin ataxia telangiectasia atm
a somat gene recombin process in  b cell that replac one heavy-chain constant region with one of a differ isotype, switch the isotyp of antibodi from igm to the product of igg, iga, or ige. this affect the antibodi effector function but not their antigen specif class switching, class switch recombin
mhc class i gene whose protein function by present peptid antigen for recognit by t cell classic mhc class i gene
a multi-subunit protein complex involv in the modif of the 3′ end of pre-messeng rna for the addit of the polyadenin polya tail cleavag stimul factor
dna join  by the imprecis join of a v gene segment to a dj gene segment dure recombin of the immunoglobulin or t-cell receptor genes. it is the joint retain in the rearrang gene code joint
subunit of cleavag stimul factor that favor polyadenyl at pas lead to the secret  of igm cstf-64
an enzymat  exhibit by aid-apobec famili protein of agnathan speci that may mediat rearrang and assembl of complet vlr gene cytidin deaminas  cda
short dna sequenc that  a join between the v and j gene segment in rearrang immunoglobulin heavy-chain gene and in t-cell receptor β- and δ-chain gene divers gene segment d, hprotein kinas in the dna repair pathway involv in the rearrang of immunoglobulin and t-cell receptor gene dna-depend protein kinas dna-pk
enzym respons for join the dna end to produc the code joint dure vdj recombin dna ligas iv
genet element encod their own transposas that can insert themselv into and excis themselv from the dna genom of a host dna transposon
a nonhomolog end join pathway of dna repair use in the complet of isotyp switch double-strand break repair dsbr
a member of the immunoglobulin superfamili that in insect is thought to opson invad bacteria and aid their engulf by phagocytes. it can be made in a multipl of differ  as a  of altern splice down syndrom cell adhes molecul dscam
a transcript elong factor that favor the polyadenyl at pa, s, lead to the secret  of igm ell2
dna not contain within chromosomes, such as the circular dna produc by vdj recombin occur between rsss in the same chromosom orient and is eventu lost from the cell extrachromosom dna
member of the immunoglobulin superfamili that are thought to have a role in innat immun in the freshwat snail, biomphalaria glabrata, fibrinogen-rel protein frep
the process of somat recombin of gene segment in the immunoglobulin and t-cell receptor genet loci to produc a function gene. this process generat the divers found in immunoglobulin and t-cell receptor variabl region gene rearrang
the site of a gene on a chromosome. in the case of the gene for the immunoglobulin and t-cell receptor chains, the term locus refer to the complet collect of gene segment and c-region gene for the given chain genet locus
an exclud hypothesi that antibodi divers was encod by a separ germlin gene for each antibody, known not to be true for most vertebrates, although cartilagin fish do have some rearrang v region in the germlin germlin theori
the class of jaw vertebr compris most fish and all mammals. these possess an adapt immun base on the rag-medi vdj recombin gnathostom
refer to the v region of the heavi chain of an immunoglobulin heavy-chain variabl region v, hthe conserv seven-nucleotid dna sequenc in the recombin signal sequenc rsss flank gene segment in the immunoglobulin and t-cell receptor loci heptam
type of heavy-chain isotyp present in cartilagin fish compos of six immunoglobulin domain igw
the varieti of antigen-specif immunoglobulin antibodi and b-cell receptor present in an individu immunoglobulin repertoir
site in non-cod region of gene that control their express and rearrang by interact with transcript factor and chromatin-modifi protein intergen control region
a type of sever combin immunodefici due to mutat in dna repair proteins, such as artemis, that caus abnorm sensit to ioniz radiat and defect in vdj recombin irradiation-sensit scid ir-scid
small polypeptid chain made by b cell that attach to polymer immunoglobulin igm and iga by disulfid bonds, and is essenti for at of the  site for the polymer immunoglobulin receptor j chain
short dna sequenc that encod the j region of immunoglobulin and t-cell receptor variabl domains. in a rearrang light-chain, tcrα, or tcrγ genes, this gene segment is join to a v gene segment. in a rearrang heavy-chain, tcrβ, or tcrδ locus, this gene segment is join to a d gene segment join gene segment, j gene segment
one of the two class or isotyp of immunoglobulin light chain κ chain
a dna repair protein requir for immunoglobulin and t-cell receptor gene rearrang ku
one of the two class or isotyp of immunoglobulin light chain λ chain
refer to the v region of the light chain of an immunoglobulin light-chain variabl region v, lnontempl nucleotid insert by the enzym termin deoxynucleotidyl transferas into the junction between gene segment of t-cell receptor and immunoglobulin heavy-chain v region dure gene segment joining. translat of these n-region mark increas the divers of these receptor chain n-nucleotid
conserv nine-nucleotid dna sequenc in the recombin signal sequenc rsss flank gene segment in the immunoglobulin and t-cell receptor loci nonam
a class of protein encod within the mhc that are relat to the mhc class i molecul but are not high polymorph and present a restrict set of antigen nonclass mhc class ib gene
dna repair pathway that direct ligat double-strand dna break without use of a homolog templat nonhomolog end join nhej
rearrang of t-cell receptor or immunoglobulin gene segment that cannot encod a protein becaus the code sequenc are in the wrong translat read frame nonproduct rearrang
a sever immunodefici diseas character by defect in either of the, rag, genes. affect individu make small amount of function rag protein, allow a small amount of vdj recombin omenn syndrom
short palindrom nucleotid sequenc  between gene segment of the rearrang v-region gene generat by the asymmetr open of the hairpin intermedi dure rag-medi rearrang p-nucleotid
gene element that have lost the abil to encod a function protein but that are retain in the genom and may continu to be transcrib normal pseudogen
protein which  a dimer that initi vdj recombin rag-1, rag-2
in vdj recombination, the rearrang of gene segment have rss element in an oppos orientation, lead to retent rearrang by invers
dna sequenc at one or both end of v, d, and j gene segment that are recogn by the rag-1:rag-2 recombinase. they consist of a conserv heptam and nonam element separ by 12 or 23 base pair recombin signal sequenc rsss
mutat in mice that caus sever combin immunodeficiency. it was eventu found to be due to mutat of the dna repair protein dna-pk scid
type of immun defici due to various caus in which both b-cell antibodi and t-cell respons are lacking; it is fatal if not treat sever combin immunodefici scid
the noncod joint  in dna by the recombin of rsss dure vdj recombin signal joint
general hypothes propos that the immunoglobulin repertoir was  from a small number of v gene that diversifi in somat cell somat diversif theori
dna recombin that take place in somat cell to distinguish it from the recombin that take place dure meiosi and gamet at somat dna recombin
mutat in v-region dna of rearrang immunoglobulin gene that produc variant immunoglobulins, some of which  antigen with a higher affinity. these mutat affect onli somat cell and are not inherit through germlin transmiss somat hypermut
circular dna fragment excis from the chromosom dure vdj recombin in develop thymoctyt that are transient retain in t cell that have recent left the thymus t-cell receptor excis circl trec
enzym that insert nontempl n-nucleotid into the junction between gene segment in t-cell receptor and immunoglobulin v-region gene dure their assembl termin deoxynucleotidyl transferas tdt
a superfamili of transpos element identifi comput and propos to date back more than 500 million year and to have given rise to transposon in divers speci transib
an enzym capabl of cut dna and allow integr and excis of transpos genet element into or from the genom of a host transposas
variabl region from the tcrα chain v, α
variabl region from the tcrβ chain v, β
nonimmunoglobulin lrr-contain variabl receptor and secret protein express by the lymphocyte-lik cell of the lamprey. they are generat by a process of somat gene rearrang variabl lymphocyt receptor vlrs
a multiprotein complex contain rag-1 and rag-2, as well as other protein involv in cellular dna repair vdj recombinas
the process exclus to develop lymphocyt in vertebrates, that recombin differ gene segment into sequenc encod complet protein chain of immunoglobulin and t-cell receptor vdj recombin
gene segment in immunoglobulin and t-cell receptor loci that encod the first 95 amino acid or so of the protein chain. there are multipl differ segment of this kind in the germlin genome. to produc a complet exon, one gene segment of this kind must be rearrang to join up with a j or a rearrang dj gene segment v gene segment
a protein that function in nhej dna repair by interact with dna ligas iv and ku70/80 at double-strand break xrcc4
a spliceosom protein express in matur and  b cells, but not immatur b cells, that favor splice from the rearrang vdj exon of immunoglobulin heavi chain to the cδ exon, therebi promot express of surfac igd zfp318
an immunogen glycolipid origin extract from marin spong but actual produc by various bacteria that is a ligand present by cd1 to invari nkt inkt cell α-galactoceramid α-galcer
multisubunit compon of the proteasom that function to captur ubiquitin protein for degrad in the catalyt core 19s regulatori cap
multisubunit compon of proteasom respons for protein degrad 20s catalyt core
a protein that function in the mainten and storag of neutral lipid droplet in mani type of cell adipos differenti relat protein
describ two individu or two mous strain that differ at gene in the mhc. the term can also be use for allel differ at other loci allogen
the recognit by t cell of mhc molecul other than self alloreact
the intracellular degrad of foreign protein into peptid that can  to mhc molecul for present to t cells. all protein antigen must be degrad into peptid befor they can be present by mhc molecul antigen process
a larg famili of protein contain a particular domain for nucleotide- that includ mani transporters, such as tap1 and tap2, but also various nod member atp- cassett abc
the digest and breakdown by a cell of it own organell and protein in lysosomes. it may be one rout by which cytosol protein can be process for present on mhc class ii molecul autophagi
altern proteasom subunit that replac the constitut catalyt subunit β1, β2, and β5 that are induc by interferon and produc the immunoproteasom β1i lmp2, β2i mecl-1, β5i lmp7
altern proteasom subunit express by thymic epitheli cell that substitut for β5 to produc the thymoproteasom involv in generat peptid encount by thymocyt dure develop β5t
a transcript factor express in dendrit cell belong to the ap1 family, which includ mani other factor such as c-jun and fos batf3
a chaperon protein in the endoplasm reticulum er that  to part fold member of the immunoglobulin superfamili of protein and retain them in the er until fold is complet calnexin
a chaperon protein in the endoplasm reticulum that, togeth with erp57 and tapasin,  the peptide-load complex that load peptid onto newli synthes mhc class i molecul calreticulin
a lipid found in mani bacteria and in the inner mitochondri membran that is a ligand recogn by some human γ:δ t cell cardiolipin
a famili of proteas use cystein at their  site that frequent function in process antigen taken into the vesicular pathway cathepsin
small famili of mhc class i-lik protein that are not encod in the mhc and can present glycolipid antigen to cd4 t cell cd1
a transmembran protein of the immunoglobulin superfamili that is express on antigen-pres cell and  to cd28 express by t cell cd86 b7-2
integrin α, e, :β, 7, , a cell-surfac marker on a subset of dendrit cell in the gastrointestin tract that are involv in induc toler to antigen from food and the commens microbiota cd103
an earli endocyt compart contain mhc class ii molecul in dendrit cell ciiv
a peptid of variabl length cleav from the invari chain ii by proteases. it remain associ with the mhc class ii molecul in an unstabl  until it is remov by the hla-dm protein class ii-associ invari chain peptid clip
describ the situat in which the two allel of a gene are express in rough equal amount in the heterozygote. most gene show this property, includ the high polymorph mhc gene codomin
the process by which extracellular protein taken up by dendrit cell can give rise to peptid present by mhc class i molecules. it enabl antigen from extracellular sourc to be present by mhc class i molecul and  cd8 t cell cross-present
 of cd8 t cell by dendrit cell in which the antigen peptid present by mhc class i molecul is deriv from an exogen protein i.e. by cross-presentation, rather than produc within the dendrit cell direct cross-prim
one of sever major compart within cell contain element such as the cytoskeleton, and mitochondria, and separ by membran from distinct compart such as the nucleus and vesicular system cytosol
peptid translat from intron in improp splice mrnas, translat of frameshifts, or improp fold proteins, which are recogn and tag by ubiquitin for degrad by the proteasom defect ribosom product drip
a special class of γ:δ t cell found in the skin of mice and some other species, but not humans. they express v, γ, 5:v, δ, 1 and may interact with ligand such as skint-1 express by keratinocyt dendrit epiderm t cell detc
a lipid intracellular signal molecul  from membran inositol phospholipid that are cleav by the action of phospholipas c-γ after the  of mani differ receptors. this molecul stay in the membran and  protein kinas c and rasgrp, which further propag the signal diacylglycerol
the process by which protein produc within a given cell give rise to peptid present by mhc class i molecules. this may refer to antigen-pres cells, such as dendrit cells, or to nonimmun cell that will becom the target of ctls direct present
an enzymat  that direct the transfer of a ubiquitin molecul from an e2 ubiquitin-conjug enzym onto a specif protein target e3 ligas
the subset of differenti effector t cell carri the cd4 co-receptor molecule, which includ the t, h, 1, t, h, 2, t, h, 17, and regulatori t cell effector cd4 t cell
enzym in the endoplasm reticulum that trim polypeptid to a size at which they can  to mhc class i molecul endoplasm reticulum aminopeptidas associ with antigen process eraap
a\xa0system of enzym in the endoplasm reticulum that recogn incomplet or misfold protein and assur their eventu degrad endoplasm reticulum-associ protein degrad erad
a nonclass mhc class i protein induc on endotheli cell that can interact with the blood coagul factor xiv protein c and can be recogn by some γ:δ t cell endotheli protein c receptor epcr
a chaperon protein involv in load peptid onto mhc class i molecul in the endoplasm reticulum erp57
a b vitamin, deriv of folic acid produc by various bacteria can be bound by the nonclass mhc class ib protein mr1 for recognit by mait cell folic acid
subset of t lymphocyt bear a t-cell receptor compos of the antigen-recognit chains, γ and δ, assembl in a γ:δ heterodim γ:δ t cell
a nonclass mhc class ib protein in mice that can  and present peptid have an, n, -yl amino terminus for recognit by cd8 t cell h2-m3
a protein express by intestin epitheli cell that regul iron uptak and transport by interact with the transferrin receptor to decreas it affin for iron-load transferrin hemochromatosi protein
a diseas caus by defect in the, hfe, gene character by abnorm high retent of iron in the liver and other organ hereditari hemochromatosi
describ individu that have two differ allel of a given gene, one inherit from the mother and one from the father heterozyg
an invari mhc protein resembl mhc class ii in human that is involv in load peptid onto mhc class ii molecules. a homolog protein in mice is call h-2m, or sometim h2-dm hla-dm
an invari mhc class ii molecul that  hla-dm, inhibit the releas of clip from mhc class ii molecul in intracellular vesicles. a homolog protein in mice is call h-2o or h2-do hla-do
describ individu that have two ident allel of a given gene, inherit separ from each parent homozyg
the genet design for the human mhc. individu loci are design by upper-cas letter and allel are design by number human leukocyt antigen hla
an enzym of non-immun function but encod in the mhc locus requir for normal cortisol synthesi by the adren gland 21-hydroxylas
an enzym present in the endosom compart of mani antigen-pres cell that denatur disulfid bond to facilit the degrad and process of protein ifn-γ-induc lysosom thiol reductas gilt
a  of proteasom found in cell expos to interferons. it contain three subunit that are differ from the normal proteasom immunoproteasom
a type of innate-lik lymphocyt that carri a t-cell receptor with an invari α chain and a β chain of limit divers that recogn glycolipid antigen present by cd1 mhc class ib molecules. this cell type also carri the surfac marker nk1.1, which is usual associ with nk cell invari nkt cell inkt cell
an archaic term for genet polymorph control the intens of the immun respons to a particular antigen, now known to  from allel differ in mhc molecules, especi mhc class ii molecules, that influenc  of particular peptid ir immun respons gene
a protein that function in the mainten and storag of neutral lipid droplet in mani type of cell in associ with adipos differenti relat protein irgm3
differ  of the same protein, for exampl the differ  encod by differ allel of the same gene iso
a cleav fragment of invari chain retain the transmembran segment that remain bound to mhc class ii protein and help target the complex to the endosom lip10
the initi cleav fragment of invari chain bound to mhc class ii molecul lip22
storag organell rich in neutral lipid within the cytoplasm lipid bodi
a divers set of antigen deriv from microbi lipid typic present by nonclass mhc class ib molecul such as cd1 molecul to invari t-cell populations, includ inkt cell lipopeptid antigen
the engulf by a cell of larg quantiti of it own cytoplasm, which is then deliv to the lysosom for degrad macroautophagi
an e3 ligas express in b cells, dendrit cells, and macrophag that induc the constitut degrad of mhc class ii molecules, regul their steady-st express membran associ ring finger c3hc4 1, march-1
the cellular vesicl in which mhc class ii molecul accumulate, encount hla-dm, and  antigen peptides, befor migrat to the surfac of the cell mhc class ii compart miic
a rare immunodefici diseas in which mhc class ii molecul are not present on cell as a  of various inherit defects. patient are sever immunodefici and have few cd4 t cell mhc class ii defici
protein that  transcript of mhc class ii genes. defect in the gene for this protein are one caus of mhc class ii defici mhc class ii trans ciita
a set of allel in the mhc that is inherit unchang that is, without recombin from one parent mhc haplotyp
the continu intern of the cytosol into the vesicular system microautophagi
divers class of antigen frequent present by cd1 molecul to inkt cell microbi glycolipid
an old term refer to non-mhc antigen respons for unusu strong t cell respons to cell from differ strain of mice, now known to be superantigen encod by endogen retrovirus minor lymphocyt stimul mls antigen
a test for histocompat in which lymphocyt from donor and recipi are cultur together. if the two peopl are histoincompatible, the recipi t cell recogn the allogen mhc molecul on the cell of the other donor as foreign and prolifer mix lymphocyt reaction mlr
describ a gene that occur in onli one  monomorph
a multisubunit protein complex induc by interferon-γ that take the place of the 19s regulatori cap of the proteasom and increas the rate of peptid exit from the proteasom catalyt core pa28 proteasome- complex
in the context of antigen process and presentation, the remov of unstabl bound peptid from mhc class ii molecul by hla-dm peptid edit
a protein complex in the endoplasm reticulum that load peptid onto mhc class i molecul peptide-load complex plc
a light harvest protein pigment made by alga and use in conjunct with flow cytometry, it can also be recogn as a ligand by some γ:δ t-cell receptor phycoerythrin
contain sever separ loci encod protein of ident function; appli to the mhc polygen
a process occur in the thymus in which onli those develop t cell whose receptor can recogn antigen present by self mhc molecul can matur posit select
a larg intracellular multisubunit proteas that degrad proteins, produc peptid proteasom
constitut compon of the proteasom catalyt chamber proteolyt subunit β1, β2, β5
a class of peptid deriv from the leader peptid of various hla class i molecul that can be bound by the human hla-e and murin qa-1 proteins, and then are recogn by the inhibitori nkg2a:cd94 receptor qa-1 determin modifi qdm
the return of endoplasm reticulum protein to the cytosol retrotransloc complex
a multisubunit transmembran protein pore complex that resid in the membran of the endoplasm reticulum and allow peptid to be transloc from the er lumen into the cytoplasm sec61
a pattern of nucleotid or amino acid share by differ gene or protein that often have relat function sequenc motif
a transmembran immunoglobulin superfamili member express by thymic stromal cell and keratinocyt that is requir for the develop of dendrit epiderm t cells, which are a type of γ:δ t cell skint-1
a class of membran lipid contain sphingosin 2-amino-4-octadecene-1,3-diole, an amino alcohol with unsatur 18-hydrocarbon chain sphingolipid
secret toxin produc by some staphylococci, which caus food poison and also stimul mani t cell by  to mhc class ii molecul and the v, β, domain of certain t-cell receptors, act as superantigen staphylococc enterotoxin ses
transport associ with antigen processing. atp- cassett protein that  a heterodimer complex in the endoplasm reticulum membrane, through which short peptid are transport from the cytosol into the lumen of the endoplasm reticulum, where they associ with mhc class i molecul tap1, tap2
tap-associ protein. a key molecul in the assembl of mhc class i molecules; a cell defici in this protein has onli unstabl mhc class\xa0i molecul on the cell surfac tapasin
special  of the proteasom compos of a uniqu subunit, β 5t, that replac β 5i lmp7 and associ with β 1i and β 2i in the catalyt chamber thymoproteasom
a system toxic reaction caus by the massiv product of cytokin by cd4 t cell  by the bacteri superantigen toxic shock syndrom toxin-1 tsst-1, which is secret by, staphylococcus aureus, toxic shock syndrom
the characterist of a pathogen that describ the cell type it will infect tropism
a small protein that can be attach to other protein and function as a protein interact modul or to target them for degrad by the proteasom ubiquitin
a qualiti control system in the cell that involv k48-link ubiquitin of target protein that are then recogn by the proteasom for degrad ubiquitin–proteasom system up
the process of attach of one or mani subunit of ubiquitin to a target protein, which can mediat either degrad by the proteasome, or at of scaffold use for signaling, depend on the natur of the linkag ubiquitin
one of sever major compart within cells, compos of the endoplasm reticulum, golgi, endosomes, and lysosom vesicular compart
a chemokin receptor select express by a subset of dendrit cell that are special for cross-present whose develop requir the transcript factor batf3 xcr1
nonenzymat protein that  physic link between member of a signal pathway, particular between a receptor and other signal proteins. they recruit member of the signal pathway into function protein complex adaptor
a heterodimer transcript factor  as one of the outcom of intracellular signal via the antigen receptor of lymphocyt and the tlrs of cell of innat immunity. most often, contain one fos-famili member and one jun-famili member. this transcript factor main  the express of gene for cytokin and chemokin ap-1
an inhibitori cd28-relat receptor express by b and t lymphocyt that interact with the herp virus entri molecul hvem, a member of the tnf receptor famili b and t lymphocyt attenu btla
a transmembran signal receptor on the b-cell surfac compos of the protein cd19, cd81, and cd21 complement receptor 2, which  complement fragment on bacteri antigen also bound by the b-cell receptor. co-lig of this complex with the b-cell receptor increas respons to antigen about 100-fold b-cell co-receptor
a scaffold protein in b cell that recruit protein involv in the intracellular signal pathway from the antigen receptor blnk
a tec-famili tyrosin kinas import in b-cell receptor signaling. this kinas is mutat in the human immunodefici diseas x-link agammaglobulinemia bruton tyrosin kinas btk
a cytosol serine/threonin phosphatas with a crucial role in signal via the t-cell receptor. the immunosuppress drug cyclosporin a and tacrolimus in this molecule, suppress t-cell respons calcineurin
calcium- protein that is  by  ca, 2+, ; it is then abl to  to and regul the  of a wide varieti of enzym calmodulin
the invari protein cd3γ, δ, and ε, and the dimer ζ chains, which  the signal complex of the t-cell receptor. each of them contain one or more itam signal motif in their cytoplasm tail cd3 complex
this protein, along with cd81 and cd21, make up the b-cell co-receptor complex cd19
anoth name for complement receptor 2 cr2 cd21
an inhibitori receptor on b cell that  sialic acid-modifi glycoprotein common found on mammalian cell and contain an itim motif in it cytoplasm tail cd22
an  receptor on t cell that  to the b7 co-stimulatori molecul present on special antigen-pres cell such as dendrit cells. this  receptor is the major co-stimulatori receptor on naiv t cell cd28
this protein, along with cd19 and cd21, make up the b-cell co-receptor complex cd81
approach to tumor therapi that attempt to interfer with the normal inhibitori signal that regul lymphocyt checkpoint ad
channel in the lymphocyt plasma membran that open to let calcium flow into the cell dure the respons of the cell to antigen. channel open is induc by releas of calcium from the endoplasm reticulum crac channel
a kinas that phosphoryl the c-termin tyrosin of src-famili kinas in lymphocytes, thus in them c-termin src kinas csk
a high-affin inhibitori receptor on t cell for b7 molecules; it  inhibit t-cell  ctla-4
a power noncytotox immunosuppress drug that inhibit signal from the t-cell receptor, prevent t-cell  and effector function. it  to cyclophilin, and the complex   to and in the phosphatas calcineurin cyclosporin a csa
the remov of a phosphat group from a molecule, usual a protein dephosphoryl
extracellular signal-rel kinase, a protein kinas that is the mapk for one modul of the t-cell receptor signal pathway. erk also function in other receptor in other cell type erk
an inhibitori receptor on b cell that recogn the fc portion of igg antibodies. this inhibitori receptor contain an itim motif in it cytoplasm tail fcγriib-1
cell-surfac receptor that  the fc portion of igg molecules. most of these receptor  onli aggreg igg, allow them to discrimin bound antibodi from free igg. express various on phagocytes, b\xa0lymphocytes, nk cells, and follicular dendrit cells, these receptor have a key role in humor immunity, link antibodi  to effector cell\xa0funct fcγriii
regulatori protein that acceler the intrins gtpase  of g protein and thus facilit the convers of g protein from the  gtp-bound state to the inact gdp-bound state gtpase- protein gap
a sequenc motif present in the cytoplasm tail of some inhibitor receptor immunoreceptor tyrosine-bas switch motif itsm
a solubl second messeng produc by the cleavag of membran inositol phospholipid by phospholipas c-γ. it act on receptor in the endoplasm reticulum membrane,  in the releas of store ca, 2+, into the cytosol inositol 1,4,5-trisphosph ip, 3a protein kinas that phosphoryl the transcript factor c-jun, enabl it to  to c-fos to  the ap-1 transcript factor jun kinas
a scaffold protein in the raf–mek1–erk map-kinas cascad that  to all three member follow antigen receptor signal to facilit their interact and to acceler the signal cascad kinas suppressor of ras
a cytoplasm adaptor protein with sever tyrosin that becom phosphoryl by the tyrosin kinas zap-70. it help to coordin downstream signal event in t-cell  linker for  of t cell
a mapk kinas in the raf–mek1–erk signal module, which is a part of a signal pathway in lymphocyt lead to  of the transcript factor ap-1 mek1
assembl of small number of t-cell receptor that may be involv in the initi of t-cell receptor  by antigen in naiv tregcel microclust
serine/threonin kinas that function in regul numer aspect of cell metabol and function in complex with regulatori protein raptor or rictor mtor mammalian target of rapamycin
a pathway for nfκb  that is distinct from the one  by antigen receptor stimulation. this pathway lead to  of the nfκb-induc kinase, nik, which phosphoryl and  iκb kinas α ikkα induc cleavag of the nfκb precursor protein p100 to  the  p52 subunit non-canon nfκb pathway
cytoplasm protein kinas that associ with the intracellular tail of signal receptor and help generat the signal but are not an intrins part of the receptor itself nonreceptor kinas
a famili of transcript factor that are  in respons to increas cytoplasm calcium follow antigen receptor signal in lymphocyt nuclear factor of  t cell nfat
a receptor on t cell that when bound by it ligands, pd-l1 and pd-l2, inhibit signal from the antigen receptor. this receptor contain an itim motif in it cytoplasm tail. target of cancer therapi aim at stimul t-cell respons to tumor pd-1 program death-1
transmembran receptor that  to the inhibitori receptor pd-1. this transmembran receptor is express on mani cell type and is upregul by inflammatori cytokin pd-l1 program death ligand-1, b7-h1
transmembran receptor that  to the inhibitori receptor pd-1; main express on dendrit cell pd-l2 program death ligand-2, b7-dc
enzym that phosphoryl the inositol headgroup on membran lipid to produc phosphoryl deriv that have a varieti of function in intracellular signal phosphatidylinositol kinas
key enzym in intracellular signal pathway lead from mani differ receptors. it is  by membran recruit and tyrosin phosphoryl follow receptor ligation, and cleav membran inositol phospholipid into inositol trisphosph and diacylglycerol phospholipas c-γ plc-γ
addit of a phosphat group to a molecule, usual a protein, catalyz by enzym call kinas phosphoryl
a membrane-associ phospholipid that is cleav by phospholipas c-γ to give the signal molecul diacylglycerol and inositol trisphosph and is phosphoryl by pi3-kinas to generat pip, 3, pip, 2, phosphatidylinositol 3,4-bisphosph
a membrane-associ phospholipid that can recruit intracellular signal molecul contain pleckstrin homolog ph domain to the membran pip, 3, phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosph
protein domains, usual with no enzymat  themselves, that have  specif for particular site such as phosphoryl tyrosines, proline-rich regions, or membran phospholipid on other protein or cellular structur protein-interact domains, protein-interact modul
a serine/threonin kinas that is  by diacylglycerol as part of the signal pathway from the antigen receptor in lymphocyt protein kinas c-θ pkc-θ
enzym that add phosphat group to protein at particular amino acid residues: tyrosine, threonine, or serin protein kinas
enzym that remov phosphat group from protein phosphoryl on tyrosine, threonine, or serin residu by protein kinas protein phosphatas
hypothet complex contain one antigen peptide:mhc molecul and one self peptide:mhc molecul on the surfac of the antigen-pres cell, which have been propos to initi t-cell  pseudo-dimer peptide:mhc complex
a protein kinas in the raf–mek1–erk signal cascad that is the first protein kinas in the pathway, and is  by the small gtpase ras raf
a small gtpase with import role in intracellular signal pathways, includ those from lymphocyt antigen receptor ras
receptor that have an intrins serine/threonin kinas  in their cytoplasm tail receptor serine/threonin kinas
receptor that have an intrins tyrosin kinas  in their cytoplasm tail receptor tyrosin kinas
adaptor-typ protein with multipl  sites, which bring togeth specif protein into a function signal complex scaffold
small molecul or ion such as ca, 2+, that are produc in respons to a signal; they act to amplifi the signal and carri it to the next stage within the cell. these molecul general act by  to and modifi the  of enzym second messeng
an sh2-contain inositol phosphatas that remov the phosphat from pip, 3, to produc pip, 2, ship sh2-contain inositol phosphatas
an sh2-contain protein phosphatas shp sh2-contain phosphatas
a scaffold protein in b cell that recruit protein involv in the intracellular signal pathway from the antigen receptor. also call blnk slp-65
a scaffold protein involv in the antigen-receptor signal pathway in lymphocyt slp-76
single-subunit g proteins, such as ras, that act as intracellular signal molecul downstream of mani transmembran signal events. also call small gtpase small g protein
a transmembran protein that act as a ca, 2+, sensor in the endoplasm reticulum. when ca, 2+, is deplet from the endoplasm reticulum, this protein is  and induc open of plasma membran crac channel stim1
a cytoplasm tyrosin kinas found in b cell that act in the signal pathway from the b-cell antigen receptor syk
an immunosuppress polypeptid drug that  fkbps and in t cell by inhibit calcineurin, thus   of the transcript factor nfat. also call fk506 tacrolimus
enzym that specif phosphoryl tyrosin residu in proteins. they are critic in the signal pathway that lead to t- and b-cell  tyrosin protein kinas
enzym that attach ubiquitin coval to expos lysin residu on the surfac of other protein ubiquitin ligas
the protein defect in patient with wiskott–aldrich syndrome. when ated, this protein promot actin polymer wasp
an immunodefici diseas character by defect in the cytoskeleton of cell due to a mutat in the protein wasp, which is involv in interact with the actin cytoskeleton. patient with this diseas are high suscept to infect with pyogen bacteria due to defect in t-follicular helper cell interact with b cell wiskott–aldrich syndrom was
a genet disord in which b-cell develop is arrest at the pre-b-cel stage and no matur b cell or antibodi are ed. the diseas is due to a defect in the gene encod the protein tyrosin kinas btk, which is encod on the x chromosom x-link agammaglobulinemia xla
one of the signal chain associ with the t-cell receptor that has three itam motif in it cytoplasm tail ζ chain
a cytoplasm tyrosin kinas found in t cell that  to the phosphoryl ζ chain of the t-cell receptor and is a key enzym in signal t-cell  zap-70 ζ-chain-associ protein
a process by which autoreact t cell are induc to die if they complet thymic matur and migrat to the peripheri ation-induc cell death
hypothesi that propos how the choic between negat select and posit select of t cell in the thymus is made, accord to the strength of self-peptide:mhc  by the t-cell receptor affin hypothesi
a process by which t cell are posit select in the thymus by their interact with relat high-affin ligand agonist select
gene encod a protein autoimmun regul that is involv in the express of numer gene by thymic medullari epitheli cells, enabl develop t cell to be expos to self protein characterist of other tissues, therebi promot toler to these proteins. defici of this gene lead to an autoimmun disease, apec air
in a heterozyg individual, the express of onli one of the two variant  of a gene. in immunology, the term describ the restrict express of the individu chain of the antigen receptor genes, such that each individu lymphocyt produc immunoglobulin or t-cell receptor of a singl antigen specif allel exclus
a diseas character by a loss of toler to self antigens, caus by a breakdown of negat select in the thymus. it is due to defect in the gene, aire, , which encod a transcript regulatori protein that enabl mani self antigen to be express by thymic medullari epitheli cells. also call autoimmun polyglandular syndrom type i autoimmun polyendocrinopathy–candidiasis–ectoderm dystrophi apec
a class of atypical, self-renew b cell also known as cd5 b cell found main in the periton and pleural caviti in adult and consid part of the innat rather than the adapt immun system. they have a much less divers antigen-receptor repertoir than convent b cell and are the major sourc of natur antibodi b-1 b cell
b-cell  factor belong to the tnf famili that  the receptor baff-r and taci to promot b cell surviv baff
immunolog toler to self antigen that is establish while lymphocyt are develop in central lymphoid organ central toler
recess genet immunodefici diseas in which there is a failur to develop thymic epithelium. parathyroid gland are also absent and there are anomali in the larg blood vessel digeorg syndrom
substag in the develop of cd4+cd8+ double-posit t cell in the thymus. rearrang of the tcrβ-chain locus start at dn2 and is complet by dn4 dn1, dn2, dn3, dn4
immatur t cell in the thymus that lack express of the two co-receptor cd4 and cd8 and repres the progenitor to the remain t cell develop in the thymus. in a normal thymus, these repres about 5% of thymocyt double-neg thymocyt
immatur t cell in the thymus that are character by express of both the cd4 and the cd8 co-receptor proteins. they repres the major about 80% of thymocyt and are the progenitor to the matur cd4 and cd8 t cell double-posit thymocyt
the region in bone marrow adjac to the inner surfac of the bone; hematopoiet stem cell are initi locat there endosteum
the major popul of long-liv recircul convent b cell found in the blood, the spleen, and the lymph nodes. also known as b-2 b cell follicular b cell
b cell that have rearrang a heavy- and a light-chain v-region gene and express surfac igm, but have not yet matur suffici to express surfac igd as well immatur b cell
a  of self-toler in which re lymphocyt and their target antigen are both detect within an individual, yet no autoimmun attack occur immunolog ignor
describ the use of one or other of the light-chain isotypes, κ or λ, by a given b cell or antibodi isotyp exclus
stage of b-cell develop immedi after the pro-b cell, in which the cell express the pre-b-cel receptor and undergo sever round of divis larg pre-b cell
stage in b-cell develop in which vh to djh join occur late pro-b cell
the differenti of lymphoid cell from a common lymphoid progenitor lymphopoiesi
b cell that express igm and igd on it surfac and has gain the abil to respond to antigen matur b cell
the central or collect point of an organ. the thymic medulla is the central area of each thymic lobe, rich in bone marrow-deriv antigen-pres cell and the cell of a distinct medullari epithelium. the medulla of the lymph node is a site of macrophag and plasma cell concentr through which the lymph flow on it way to the effer lymphat medulla
bone marrow cell that can give rise to both lymphoid and myeloid cell but are no longer self-renew stem cell multipot progenitor cell mpps
the process by which self-react thymocyt are delet from the repertoir dure t-cell develop in the thymus. autoreact b cell undergo a similar process in bone marrow negat select
a mutat in mice that  in hairless and defect at of the thymic stroma, so that mice homozyg for this mutat have no matur t cell nude
toler acquir by matur lymphocyt in the peripher tissues, as oppos to central tolerance, which is acquir by immatur lymphocyt dure their develop peripher toler
receptor produc by pre-b cell that includ an immunoglobulin heavi chain, as well as surrog light-chain proteins, igα and igβ signal subnits. signal through this receptor induc the pre-b cell to enter the cell cycle, to turn off the rag genes, to degrad the rag proteins, and to expand by sever cell divis pre-b-cel receptor
receptor protein produc by develop treglymphocyt at the pre-t-cel stage. it is compos of tcrβ chain that pair with a surrog α chain call ptα pre-t-cel α, and is associ with the cd3 signal chains. signal through this receptor induc pre-t-cel proliferation, express of cd4 and cd8, and cessat of tcr β chain rearrang pre-t-cel receptor
a stage in b-lymphocyt develop in which cell have  b-cell surfac marker protein but have not yet complet heavy-chain gene rearrang pro-b cell
a surrog chain that pair with tcrβ chain to  the pre-t-cel receptor produc by develop t lymphocyt at the pre-t-cel stage ptα
the replac of a light or heavi chain of a self-react antigen receptor on immatur b cell with a newli rearrang chain that doe not confer autoreact receptor edit
a g protein-coupl receptor express on circul lymphocyt that  the chemotact phospholipid, sphingosin 1-phosphate, which  a chemotact gradient that promot the egress of non- lymphocyt out of secondari lymphoid tissu into the effer lymphat and blood s1pr1
a matur t cell that express either the cd4 or the cd8 co-receptor, but not both single-posit thymocyt
stage in b-cell develop immedi after the larg pre-b cell in which cell prolifer ceas and light-chain gene rearrang commenc small pre-b cell
the nonlymphoid cell in central and peripher lymphoid organ that provid solubl and cell-bound signal requir for lymphocyt development, survival, and migrat stromal cell
a protein in pre-b cells, made up of two subunits, vpreb and λ5, that can pair with a full-length immunoglobulin heavi chain and the igα and igβ signal subunit and signal for pre-b-cel differenti surrog light chain
surgic remov of the thymus thymectomi
the tissu from which the thymic stroma develop dure embryogenesi thymic anlag
the outer region of each thymic lobul in which thymic progenitor cell thymocyt proliferate, rearrang their t-cell receptor genes, and undergo thymic selection, especi posit select on thymic cortic epitheli cell thymic cortex
the epitheli cell and connect tissu of the thymus that  the essenti microenviron for t-cell develop thymic stroma
develop t cell when they are in the thymus. the major are not function matur and are unabl to mount protect t-cell respons thymocyt
describ an antigen or type of antigen exposur that induc toler tolerogen
defin stage in the develop of immatur b cell into matur b cell in the spleen, after which the b cell express b-cell co-receptor compon cd21 transit stage
a cytokin thought to be involv in promot b-cell develop in the embryon liver tslp thymic stroma-deriv lymphopoietin
an immunodefici diseas in mice due to defect in the protein tyrosin kinas btk. share the gene defect with x-link agammaglobulinemia in humans, but lead to a milder b cell defect than seen in the human diseas x-link immunodefici
a large, multimer protein structur that  in the process of apoptosi when cytochrome, c, is releas from mitochondria and  apaf-1. a heptam of cytochrome, c, -apaf-1 heterodim assembl into wheel-lik structur that  and  procaspase-9, an initi caspase, to initi the caspas cascad apoptosom
a lectin on the dendritic-cel surfac that  icam-3 with high affin dc-sign
intracellular proteas that are  as a  of an apoptot signal and mediat the cellular chang associ with apoptosi effector caspas
a pathway trigger by extracellular ligand  to specif cell-surfac receptor death receptor that signal the cell to undergo program cell death apoptosi extrins pathway of apoptosi
a cell type of uncertain origin in b-cell follicl of peripher lymphoid organ that captur antigen:antibodi complex use non-intern fc receptor and present them to b cell for intern and process dure the germin center reaction follicular dendrit cell fdc
the direct of a lymphocyt into a particular tissu home
the high organ interfac that develop between a t cell and the target cell it is in contact with,  by t-cell receptor  to antigen and cell-adhes molecul  to their counterpart on the two cells. also known as the supramolecular adhes complex immunolog synaps
proteas that promot apoptosi by cleav and  other caspas initi caspas
signal pathway that mediat apoptosi in respons to noxious stimuli includ uv irradiation, chemotherapeut drugs, starvation, or lack of the growth factor requir for survival. it is initi by mitochondri damag intrins pathway of apoptosi
the  of a dendrit cell so that it is abl to present antigen to naiv t cell and  them licens
cell of the blood lineage, which aris in the fetal liver and are carri in the blood to site where they will  lymph node and other peripher lymphoid organ lymphoid tissu induc lti cell
cytokin of the tumor necrosi factor tnf famili that are direct cytotox for some cells. they occur as trimer lymphotoxin lts
a blood-fil vascular network that branch from the central arteriol and demarc each area of white pulp in the spleen margin sinus
lymphocyt that have never encount their specif antigen and thus have never respond to it, as distinct from effector and memori lymphocyt naiv t cell
the process of cell death that occur in respons to noxious stimuli, such as nutrient deprivation, physic injury, or infection. to be distinguish from apoptosis, in which the cell  an internal, or intrinsic, program of death, such as occur in immun cell as a  of defici of cell surviv signal necrosi
a phospholipid with chemotact  that control the egress of t cell from lymph node sphingosin 1-phosphat s1p
organ structur that  at the point of contact between a t cell and it target cell, in which the ligand-bound antigen receptor are co-loc with other cell-surfac signal and adhes molecules. also known as supramolecular adhes complex supramolecular  complex smac
cell that aid in an adapt immun respons but are not involv in specif antigen recognition. they includ phagocytes, neutrophils, mast cells, and nk cell accessori effector cell
immun with antigen to provok adapt immun  immun
cell-surfac protein on bacteria that enabl them to  to the surfac of host cell adhesin
antibodi rais against the venom of a poison snake or other organ and which can be use as an immedi treatment for the bite to neutral the venom antivenin
an\xa0rna edit enzym that deamin cytidin to uracil in certain mrnas and which is relat to the enzym aid involv in somat hypermut and isotyp switch apobec1 apolipoprotein b mrna edit catalyt polypeptid 1
a tnf famili cytokin relat to baff that  the receptor taci and bcma on b cell to promot surviv and regul differenti april
receptor that can  canon and non-canon nf-κb signal and promot surviv of b cell baff-r
type of dna repair that can lead to mutat and that is involv in somat hypermut and class switch in b cell base-excis repair
a transmembran signal receptor on the b-cell surfac compos of the protein cd19, cd81, and cd21 complement receptor 2, which  complement fragment on bacteri antigen also bound by the b-cell receptor. co-lig of this complex with the b-cell receptor increas respons to antigen about 100-fold b-cell co-receptor complex
ani substanc that nonspecif caus b cell to prolifer b-cell mitogen
a transcript repressor that oppos differenti of b cell into plasma cell bcl-6
receptor of the tnfr superfamili that  april bcma
a transcript repressor that promot b-cell differenti into plasma cell and suppress proliferation, and further class switch and affin matur blimp-1
refer to bacteria surround by a polysaccharid shell that resist action of phagocytes,  in pus at at the site of infection. also call pyogen pus- bacteria capsul bacteria
chemokin made by dendrit cell and stromal cell in t-cell zone of lymph node that  ccr7 and function to attract naiv t cell ccl19
chemokin made by dendrit cell and stromal cell in t cell zone of lymph node that  ccr7 and function to attract naiv t cell ccl21
chemokin receptor express by all naiv t and b cells, and some memori t and b cells, such as central memori t cells, that  ccl19 and ccl21 made by dendrit cell and stromal cell in lymphoid tissu ccr7
co-stimulatori molecul involv in stimul the prolifer of antigen- naiv b cell cd30 b cells, cd30 ligand t cell
co-stimulatori molecul whose interact is requir for the prolifer and class switch of antigen  naiv b cell cd40 b cells, cd40 ligand t cell
large, rapid divid  b cell present in the dark zone of germin center in follicl of peripher lymphoid organ centroblast
small b cell that deriv from centroblast in the germin center of follicl in peripher lymphoid organs; they popul the light zone of the germin center centrocyt
a transcript factor act in the develop of t, fh, cell c-maf
chemokin produc by stromal cell in the dark zone of the germin center that  cxcr4 express by centroblast cxcl12 sdf-1
chemokin produc in the follicl and the light zone of the germin center that  cxcr5 express on circul b cell and centrocyt cxcl13
a chemokin receptor express by circul b cell and  t cell that  the chemokin cxcl13 and direct cell migrat into the follicl cxcr5
an explan of the behavior of b cell in lymphoid follicles, propos that  b cell in germin center lose and gain express of the chemokin receptor cxcr4 and thus move from the light zone to the dark zone and back again under the influenc of the chemokin cxcl12 cyclic reentri model
a chemokin receptor that  oxysterol and regul b-cell movement to the outer follicular and interfollicular region dure earli phase of b-cell  in lymphoid tissu ebi2 gpr183
a dna polymeras oper dure dna repair, such as polη which can repair a basic lesion by incorpor untempl nucleotid into the newli  dna strand error-pron transles dna polymeras
this receptor transport igg from mother to fetus across the placenta, and across other epithelia such as the epithelium of the gut fcrn neonat fc receptor
a structur  from g-rich region of dna in which four guanin base  a planar hydrogen-bond network, or guanin tetrad, that can further stack on other guanin tetrad g-quadruplex
antibodi product against a small chemic group, the hapten, follow it attach to a carrier protein for which an immun respons has been generat hapten carrier effect
a group of genet diseas in which there is overproduct of igm antibody, among other symptoms. they are due to defect in various gene for protein involv in class switch such as cd40 ligand and the enzym aid hyper igm syndrom
a cd28-relat co-stimulatori receptor that is induc on  t cell and can enhanc t-cell responses. it  a co-stimulatori ligand known as icosl, which is distinct from the b7 molecul ico induc co-stimulatori
a cytokin produc by t cell e.g.t, fh, cell that  stat3 and promot surviv and proliferation, particular germin center b cell il-21
a somat gene recombin process in  b cell that replac one heavy-chain constant region with one of a differ isotype, switch the isotyp of antibodi from igm to the product of igg, iga, or ige. this affect the antibodi effector function but not their antigen specificity. also known as class switch isotyp switch
the rule that for a helper t cell to be abl to  a b cell, the epitop recogn by the b cell and the helper t cell have to be deriv from the same antigen link recognit
a rim of b lymphocyt that surround lymphoid follicl mantl zone
the overproduct of mast cell mastocytosi
a type of dna repair that caus mutat and is involv in somat hypermut and class switch in b cell mismatch repair
mismatch repair protein that detect uridin and recruit nucleas to remov the damag and sever adjac nucleotid msh2, msh6
antibodi that inhibit the infect of a virus or the toxic of a toxin neutral antibodi
the inject of antibodi or immun serum into a naiv recipi to provid specif immunolog protect passiv immun
major  of the igm antibodi produc by the action of j chain  in higher avid for antigen pentamer igm
an adhesin of, neisseria gonorrhoeae, allow attach to and infect of epitheli cell of urinari and reproduct tract pilin
a b cell in a lymph node that alreadi show some featur of a plasma cell plasmablast
an error-prone, translesion, dna polymeras involv in repair dna damag caus by uv radiat and in somat hypermut polη
the  of lymphocyt by a mitogen regardless of antigen specificity, lead to the  of clone of lymphocyt of multipl antigen specif polyclon 
the halt of rna polymeras dure the transcript of a gene at locat within the gene locus, known to be a regul process, and involv in mechan of isotyp switch polymeras stall
the receptor for polymer immunoglobulin iga and igm on basolater surfac of mucos and glandular epitheli cell that transport iga or igm into secret polymer immunoglobulin receptor pigr
a distinct structur in some bacteria—both gram-neg and gram-positive—that lie outsid cell membran and cell wall that can prevent direct phagocytosi by macrophag without the aid of antibodi or complement polysaccharid capsul
site of earli antibodi product by plasmablast in medullari cord of lymph node that preced the germin center reaction and differenti of plasma cell primari focus
aggreg of rest b lymphocyt in peripher lymphoid organ primari lymphoid follicl
a structur  when transcrib rna displac the nontempl strand of the dna doubl helix at switch region in the immunoglobulin constant-region gene cluster. r-loop are thought to promot class switch recombin r-loop
a multisubunit complex involv in process and edit of rna rna exosom
a follicl contain a germin center of prolifer  b cell dure an ongo adapt immun respons secondari lymphoid follicl
fragment of the polymer immunoglobulin receptor that remain after cleavag and is attach to secret iga after transport across epitheli cell secretori compon sc
a g-protein-coupl receptor  by sphingosin 1-phosphate, a lipid mediat in the blood that regul sever physiolog processes, includ the traffick of naiv lymphocyt from tissu into the blood sphingosin 1-phosphat receptor s1p1
a transcript elong factor requir for isotyp switch in b cell that function in associatioin with rna polymeras to enabl recruit of aid to it target in the genom spt5
the site of lymphat entri in lymph node line by phagocytes, includ subcapsular macrophag which captur particul and opson antigen drain in from tissu subcapsular sinus scs
genom regions, sever kilobas in length each, locat between the jh region and the heavy-chain cμ genes, or in equival posit upstream of other c-region gene except cδ, contain hundr of g-rich repeat sequenc that function in class switch recombin switch region
an autoimmun diseas in which autoantibodi against dna, rna, and protein associ with nucleic acid  immun complex that damag small blood vessels, especi in the kidney system lupus erythematosus sle
a receptor for baff express on b cell that  the canon nfκb pathway taci
antigen that elicit respons onli in individu that have t cell thymus-depend antigen td
antigen that can elicit antibodi product without the involv of t cells. there are two type of ti antigens: the ti-1 antigens, which have intrins b-cell  ity, and the ti-2 antigens, which  b cell by have multipl ident epitop that cross-link the b-cell receptor thymus-independ antigen ti
phagocyt cell engulf apoptot b cells, which are produc in larg number in germin center at the height of an adapt immun respons tingibl bodi macrophag
in toxin that are no longer toxic but retain their immunogen so that they can be use for immun toxoid
a cytosol fc receptor and e3 ligas that is  by igg and can ubiquitin viral protein after an antibody-co virus enter the cytoplasm trim21 tripartit motif-contain 21
enzym that remov uracil base from dna in a dna repair pathway that can lead to somat hypermutation, class switch recombin or gene convers uracil-dna glycosylas ung
antibodi that  the abil of a virus to establish infect of cell virus-neutr antibodi
a transcript factor that induc gene requir for optim protein secret by plasma cells, and is part of the unfold protein response. the mrna of this transcript factor is splice from an inact to an   by signal produc by er stress xbp1 x-box  protein 1
sever autosom recess diseas caus by defect in repair of ultraviolet light-induc dna damage. defect in polη caus type v xeroderma pigmentosum xeroderma pigmentosum
rare immunodefici diseas that  from mutat in the gene, sh2d1a, xlp1 or, xiap, xlp2. boy with this defici typic develop overwhelm epstein–barr virus infect dure childhood, and sometim lymphoma x-link lymphoprolif xlp syndrom
macrophag which develop in the context of type 2 respons e.g. parasit infect and promot tissu remodel and repair altern  macrophag
an inherit syndrom in which a defect in the, fas, gene lead to a failur in normal apoptosis, caus unregul immun respons autoimmun lymphoprolif syndrom alp
famili of intracellular protein that includ member that promot apoptosi and member that inhibit apoptosi bcl-2 famili
a complex of heterodim of the antimicrobi peptid s100a8 and s100a9, which sequest zinc and manganes from microbes. produc in abund by neutrophils, and in lesser amount by macrophag and epitheli cell calprotectin
also known as il-2 receptorα il-2rα, this is the high-affin compon of the il-2 receptor, which also includ il-2rβ and the common γ chain. it is upregul by  t cell and is constitut express by t, reg, cell to confer respons to il-2 cd25
a tnf receptor-famili protein constitut express on naiv t cell that  cd70 on dendrit cell and deliv a potent co-stimulatori signal to t cell earli in the  process cd27
also known as phagocyt glycoprotein-1 pgp1, this is a cell-surfac glycoprotein express by naiv lymphocyt and upregul on  t cells. it is a receptor for hyaluron acid and function in cell–cel and cell–extracellular matrix adhesion. high express of this glycoprotein is use as a marker for effector and memori t cell cd44
an altern splice variant of cd45 that serv as a marker for memori t cell cd45ro
a cell-surfac protein that is rapid express by antigen- t cells. it act to down-modul the express of the sphingosin 1 phosphat receptor 1 s1pr1, therebi retain  t cell within t-cell zone of secondari lymphoid tissu as they divid and differenti into effector t cell cd69
the ligand for cd27 that is express on  dendrit cell and deliv a potent co-stimulatori signal to t cell earli in the  process cd70
also known as il-7 receptor α il-7rα, which pair with the common γ chain of the il-2 receptor famili to  the il-7 receptor. it is express by naiv t cell and a subset of memori t cell to support their surviv cd127
memori lymphocyt that express ccr7 and recircul between blood and secondari lymphoid tissu similar to naiv t cells. they requir restimul in secondari lymphoid tissu to becom fulli matur effector t cell central memori t cell tcm
macrophages, which develop in the context of type 1 respons and have pro-inflammatori properti classic  macrophag
a cell-surfac molecul that is involv in lymphocyt home to the skin in human cutan lymphocyt antigen cla
a multi-protein complex that is  by signal through member of the death receptor famili of apoptosis-induc cellular receptors, such as fas. it  the caspas cascad to induc apoptosi death-induc signal complex disc
memori lymphocyt that recircul between blood and peripher tissu and are special for rapid matur into effector t cell after restimul with antigen in non-lymphoid tissu effector memori t cell tem
a site of chronic inflamm usual trigger by persist infecti agent such as mycobacteria or by a nondegrad foreign body. these inflammatori site have a central area of macrophages, often fuse into multinucl giant cells, surround by t lymphocyt granuloma
a sever  of rh hemolyt diseas in which matern anti-rh antibodi enter the fetus and produc a hemolyt anemia so sever that the fetus has main immatur erythroblast in the peripher blood hemolyt diseas of the newborn
chemokin that are produc at steady-st to direct the local of immun cell to lymphoid tissu homeostat chemokin
receptor on lymphocyt for chemokines, cytokines, and adhes molecul specif to particular tissues, and which enabl the lymphocyt to enter that tissu home receptor
chemokin that are produc in respons to infect or injuri to direct the local of immun cell to site of inflamm inflammatori chemokin
adhes molecul of the selectin famili found on lymphocytes. l-selectin  to cd34 and glycam-1 on high endotheli venul to initi the migrat of naiv lymphocyt into lymphoid tissu l-selectin
an antimicrobi peptid produc in abund by neutrophil and mucos epitheli cell that inhibit bacteri and fungal growth by limit avail of iron lipocalin-2
the name sometim given to classic  macrophages, which develop in the context of type 1 respons and have pro-inflammatori properti m1 macrophag
the name sometim given to altern  macrophages, which develop in in the context of type 2 respons e.g parasit infect and promot tissu remodel and repair m2 macrophag
a mucos addressin that is recogn by the lymphocyt surfac protein l-selectin and vla-4, enabl the specif home of lymphocyt to mucos tissu madcam-1 mucos cell-adhes molecule-1
special mast cell present in mucosa. they produc littl histamin but larg amount of prostaglandin and leukotrien mucos mast cell
innat immun cell deriv from myelomonocyt bone marrow precursors, includ neutrophils, basophils, eosinophils, monocytes, and dendrit cell myelomonocyt seri
the tendenc of human to make antibodi respons to those epitop share between the first strain of a virus they encount and subsequ relat viruses, while ignor other high immunogen epitop on the second and subsequ virus origin antigen sin
four specif peptide:mhc complex bound to a singl molecul of fluoresc label streptavidin, which are use to identifi popul of antigen-specif t cell peptide:mhc tetram
the adapt immun respons that follow the first exposur to a particular antigen primari immun respons
protein express by  effector t cell that is a ligand for p-selectin on endotheli cells, and may enabl  t cell to enter all tissu in small number p-selectin glycoprotein ligand-1 psgl-1
the immun respons that occur in respons to a second exposur to an antigen. in comparison with the primari response, it start sooner after exposure, produc greater level of antibody, and produc class-switch antibodies. it is generat by the re of memori lymphocyt secondari immun respons
an immun respons that complet elimin a pathogen steril immun
flexibl in the development program of cd4 t cell such that effector t-cell subset are not irrevers fix in their function or the transcript network that underpin those function t-cell plastic
adapt immun respons provok by a third inject of the same antigen. it is more rapid in onset and stronger than the primari respons tertiari immun respons
a cytokin thought to be involv in promot b-cell develop in the embryon liver. it is also produc by mucos epitheli cell in respons to helminth infections, and promot type 2 immun respons through it action on macrophages, ilc2s, and t, h, 2 cell thymic stromal lymphopoietin tslp
memori lymphocyt that do not migrat after take up resid in barrier tissues, where they are retain long term. they appear to be special for rapid effector function after restimul with antigen or cytokin at site of pathogen entri tissue-resid memori t cell trm
an adhes molecul express by vascular endothelium at site of inflammation; it  the integrin vla-4, which allow effector t cell to enter site of infect vcam-1
a basic helix-loop-helix transcript factor that is  by various aromat ligand including, famously, dioxin. it function in the normal  of sever type of immun cell includ some ilc and iel aryl hydrocarbon receptor ahr
a doubl bilay membran structur that function in macroautophagi by engulf cytoplasm content and fuse with lysosom autophagosom
a short chain fatti acid produc abund by anaerob digest of carbohydr in the intestin by commens that can influenc host cell in sever ways, act as an energi sourc for enterocyt and as an inhibitor of histon deacetylas butyr
chemokin made by follicle-associ epitheli cell and  ccr6, recruit  t and b cells, nk cells, and dendrit cell into galt ccl9 mip-1γ
chemokin made by follicle-associ epitheli cell and  ccr6, recruit  t and b cells, nk cells, and dendrit cell into galt ccl20
chemokin made by small-intestin epitheli cell that  ccr9 to recruit gut-hom t and b cell ccl25 teck
chemokin made by colon intestin cells, salivari gland, and lactat mammari gland cell that  ccr10 to recruit b lymphocyt produc iga into these tissu ccl28 mec, mucos epitheli chemokin
chemokin receptor express by neutrophils, monocytes, b cells, and dendrit cells, that  sever chemokines, includ ccl6 and ccl9 ccr1
chemokin receptor express by follicular and margin zone b cell and dendrit cell that  ccl20 ccr6
chemokin receptor express by dendrit cells, t cells, and thymocytes, and some γ:δ t cells, that  ccl25 that mediat recruit of gut-hom cell ccr9
chemokin receptor express by mani cell that  ccl27 and ccl28 that mediat intestin recruit of iga-produc b lymphocyt ccr10
integrin express by macrophag and some dendrit cell that function with β2 integrin cd18 as complement receptor\xa03 cr3 cd11b α, m, integrin
a chronic condit of the upper small intestin caus by an immun respons direct at gluten, a complex of protein present in wheat, oats, and barley. the gut wall becom chronic inflamed, the villi are destroyed, and the gut abil to absorb nutrient is compromis celiac diseas
gram-posit anaerob toxogen spore- bacterium frequent associ with sever coliti follow treatment with certain broad-spectrum antibiot clostridium difficil
the mucos immun system as a whole, the name reflect the fact that lymphocyt that have been prime in one part of the mucos system can recircul as effector cell to other part of the mucos system common mucos immun system
aggreg of lymphoid tissu in the gut wall that are thought to give rise to isol lymphoid follicl cryptopatch
chemokin receptor express by monocytes, macrophages, nk cells, and  t cell that  cxcl1 fractalkin cx3cr1
inflamm and necrosi of intestin enterocyt follow surgic divers of normal flow of fecal content due to impair metabol  from loss of short-chain fatti acid deriv from microbiota divers coliti
alter balanc of microbi speci compris the microbiota  from a varieti of caus e.g. antibiotics, genet disord and frequent associ with outgrowth of pathogen organ such as, clostridium difficile, dysbiosi
integrin express by epitheli cell import in  the adheren junction between adjac cell e-cadherin
refer to multipl strain of, e. coli, capabl of attach to, and infect and destruct of cell of the intestin microvilli, caus coliti and diarrheagen diseas enteroadherent, escherichia coli
fc receptor high express by monocyt and macrophag that has the highest affin of the fc receptor for igg fcγr1 cd64
special epithelium separ the lymphoid tissu of the gut wall from the intestin lumen. as well as enterocyt it contain microfold cells, through which antigen enter the lymphoid organ from the gut follicle-associ epithelium
type of effector cd4 t cell that resid in lymphoid follicl and provid help to b cell for antibodi product follicular helper t cell t, fh
mice that are rais in the complet absenc of intestin and other microorganisms. such mice have veri deplet immun systems, but they can respond virtual normal to ani specif antigen, provid it is mix with a strong adjuv germ-fre mice
special epitheli cell locat in mani site throughout the bodi respons for mucus production; import in protect of the epithelium goblet cell
rout wherebi mucos produc dimer iga enter the portal vein in the lamina propria, is transport to the liver, and reach the bile duct by transcytosis. this pathway is not of great signific in human hepatobiliari rout
general name for a set of inflammatori condit in the gut, such as crohn diseas and colitis, that have an immunolog compon inflammatori bowel diseas ibd
integrin  to vcam-1, madcam-1, and fibronectin and express by various cells, such as iels, that traffic to intestin lamina propria integrin α, 4, :β, 7
lymphocyt present in the epithelium of mucos surfac such as the gut. they are predomin t cells, and in the gut are predomin cd8 t cell intraepitheli lymphocyt iel
a type of organ lymphoid tissu in the gut wall that is compos main of b cell isol lymphoid follicl ilf
a crescent-shap double-membran cytoplasm structure. also call phagophor isol membran
various compound deriv from tryptophan through the action of the enzym indolamine-2,3-dioxygenas ido or tryptophan-2,3-dioxygenas tdo express in various immun cell or the\xa0liv kynurenin metabolit
a layer of connect tissu under a mucos epithelium. it contain lymphocyt and other immune-system cell lamina propria
lymph node locat in the connect tissu mesenteri that tether the intestin to the rear wall of the abdomen. they drain the galt mesenter lymph node
the suppress of specif system immun respons to an antigen by the previous administr of the same antigen by a mucos rout mucos toler
a symbiot relationship between two organ in which both benefit, such as the relationship between a human and it normal resid commens gut microorgan mutual
the suppress of specif system immun respons to an antigen by the prior administr of the same antigen by the oral enter rout oral toler
a crescent-shap double-membran cytoplasm structure. also call isol membran phagophor
the state of the normal healthi intestine, whose wall contain larg number of effector lymphocyt and other cells. it is thought to be the  of continu stimul by commens organ and food antigen physiolog inflamm
signal molecul deriv from vitamin a with mani role in the body. it is thought to be involv in the induct of immunolog toler in the gut retino acid
polymer iga antibodi main dimer contain bound j chain and secretori component. it is the predomin  of immunoglobulin in most human secret secretori iga siga
refer to commens gram-posit firmicut speci and member of the, clostridiaceae, famili that adher to the intestin wall of rodent and sever other speci that induc t, h, 17 and iga respons segment filament bacteria sfb
relationship between two agents, typic divers species, that confer benefit to both symbiot
name sometim given to the lymph node and spleen to distinguish them from the mucos immun system system immun system
nonclass mhc class ib molecul express by intestin epitheli cell and a ligand for cd8α:α thymus leukemia antigen tl
the  transport of molecules, such as secret iga, through epitheli cell from one face to the other transcytosi
one of the two major type of inflammatori bowel diseas thought to  from an abnorm overrespons to the commens gut microbiota ulcer coliti
in refer to hiv infection, the period that occur soon after a person becom infected. it is character by an influenza-lik illness, abund virus in the blood, and a decreas in the number of circul cd4 t cell acut phase
an inherit defect which lead to the accumul of toxic purin nucleosid and nucleotid in cells,  in the death of most develop lymphocyt within the thymus. it is a caus of sever combin immunodefici adenosin deaminas ada defici
an absenc of antibodi in the blood agammaglobulinemia
the process by which influenza virus vari genet in minor way from year to year. point mutat in viral gene caus small differ in the structur of the viral surfac antigen antigen drift
a radic chang in the surfac antigen of influenza virus, caus by reassort of their segment genom with that of anoth influenza virus, often from an anim antigen shift
alter in surfac antigen that occur in some pathogen such as african trypanosom from one generat to another, which allow them to evad preexist antibodi antigen variat
in refer to hiv infection, period in which the infect is be part held in check and no symptom occur; it may last for mani year asymptomat phase
an immunodefici diseas in which either mhc class i or class ii molecul are not present on the cell surfac bare lymphocyt syndrom
a man with hiv who was treat in berlin with a hematopoiet stem cell hsc transplant from a donor defici in a co-receptor for the virus ccr5 for an unrel ill leukemia. he is thought to be cure of hiv infection, and is one of the onli known patient in which the virus is thought to be complet eliminated, a so-cal steril cure berlin patient
antibodi that  viral infect by multipl strains. in refer to hiv, these are antibodi that   of the virus to cd4 and/or chemokin co-receptor broad neutral antibodi
an immunodefici diseas in which littl or no igg, ige, or iga antibodi is produc and even igm respons are deficient, but serum igm level are normal to high. it is due to a defect in the gene encod cd40l, which prevent class switch from occurring. also known as x-link hyper igm syndrom cd40 ligand defici
a defect in phagocyt cell function caus by a defect in a protein involv in intracellular vesicl fusion. lysosom fail to fuse proper with phagosomes, and kill of ingest bacteria is impair chediak–higashi syndrom
an autoinflammatori diseas due to defect in the gene, nlrp3, , one of the compon of the inflammasom chronic infantil neurolog cutan and articular syndrom cinca
a relat common defici in antibodi product in which onli one or a few isotyp are affected. it can be due to a varieti of genet defect common variabl immunodefici cvid
a domin inherit diseas in which neutrophil number fluctuat from near normal to veri low or absent, with an approxim cycl time of 21 days. this is in contrast to sever congenit neutropenia scn, in which the inherit defect  in persist low neutrophil number cyclic neutropenia
in refer to viral defens mechanisms, the degrad of newli synthes mhc class i molecul by viral protein disloc
a subset of hiv-infect long-term non-progressor who have clinic undetect level of virus without antiretrovir therapi elit control
mutant of pathogen that are chang in such a way that they can evad the immun respons against the origin pathogen escap mutant
a famili of progress and potenti lethal inflammatori diseas caus by an inherit defici of one of sever protein involv in the at or releas of cytolyt granules. larg number of polyclon cd8-posit tregcel accumul in lymphoid and other organs, and this is associ with  macrophag that phagocytos blood cells, includ erythrocyt and leukocyt famili hemophagocyt lymphohistiocytosi fhl
a sever autoinflammatori disease, inherit as an autosom recess disorder. it is caus by mutat in the gene , mefv, that encod the protein pyrin, which is express in granulocyt and monocytes. in patient with this disorder, defect pyrin is thought to spontan  inflammasom famili mediterranean fever fmf
an attack on the tissu of the recipi by matur t cell in a bone marrow graft from a nonident donor, which can caus a varieti of symptoms; sometim these are sever graft-versus-host diseas gvhd
an inherit immunodefici diseas that affect the pathway for secret of lysosomes. it is caus by mutat in a small gtpase rab27a, which control the movement of vesicl within cell griscelli syndrom
describ the situat in which the presenc of onli one normal allel of a gene is not suffici for normal function haploinsuffici
a dysregul expans of cd8-posit lymphocyt that is associ with macrophag ation. the  macrophag phagocytos blood cells, includ erythrocyt and leukocyt hemophagocyt lymphohistiocyt hlh syndrom
a combin of drug that is use to control hiv infection. it compris nucleosid analog that prevent revers transcription, and drug that inhibit the viral proteas high  antiretrovir therapi haart
anoth name for the allograft reject reaction. the term is use main in relat to bone marrow transplant when immun cell of the host recogn and destroy transplant bone marrow or hematopoiet stem cell hscs host-versus-graft diseas hvgd
the causat agent of the acquir immun defici syndrom aids. this is a retrovirus of the lentivirus famili that select infect macrophag and cd4 t cells, lead to their slow depletion, which eventu  in immunodefici human immunodefici virus hiv
also call job syndrome. a diseas character by recurr skin and pulmonari infect and high serum concentr of ige hyper ige syndrom hie
appli to mutat that  in reduc gene function hypomorph mutat
the class of immunoglobulin character by α heavi chains. it is the most common type of immunodeficiency. it can occur in a monomer and a polymer main dimer . polymer iga is the main antibodi secret by mucos lymphoid tissu iga defici
mechan use by pathogen to avoid detect and/or elimin by host immun defens immun evas
describ epitop in an antigen that are preferenti recogn by t cells, such that t cell specif for those epitop come to domin the immun respons immunodomin
viral protein that prevent the appear of peptide:mhc class i complex on the infect cell, thus prevent the recognit of virus-infect cell by cytotox t cell immunoevasin
pluripot stem cell that are deriv from adult somat cell by the introduct of a cocktail of transcript factor induc pluripot stem cell ip cell
the common  of infect with the epstein–barr virus. it consist of fever, malaise, and swollen lymph nodes. also call glandular fever infecti mononucleosi
a  of sever congenit neutropenia, an inherit condit in which the neutrophil count is low. in kostmann disease, this is due to a defici of the mitochondri protein hax1, which lead to apoptosi of develop myeloid cell and persist neutropenia kostmann diseas
a state in which a virus infect a cell but doe not replic latenc
a group of retrovirus that includ the human immunodefici virus, hiv-1. they caus diseas after a long incub period lentivirus
hiv-infect individu who mount an immun respons that control viral load such that they do not progress to aid despit the absenc of antiretrovir therapi long-term non-progressor
abnorm low level of lymphocyt in the blood lymphopenia
the phase of the viral life cycl in which the virus genom integr into the host cell genom but remain dormant, employ mechan to avoid destroy it cellular host lysogen phase
the phase of the viral life cycl in which there is  viral replic follow by destruct of the infect host cell as the virus escap to infect new target cell lytic phase, product phase
a lack of immun function that is caus by a genet defect primari immunodefici
the dna  of a retrovirus when it is integr into the host-cel genome, where it can remain transcript inact for long period provirus
an enzym defect that  in sever combin immunodeficiency. this defici caus an intracellular accumul of purin nucleosides, which are toxic to develop t cell purin nucleotid phosphorylas pnp defici
autoinflammatori syndrom that is caus by mutat in a protein that interact with pyrin pyogen arthritis, pyoderma gangrenosum, and acn papa
the differ genet  of certain rna virus that are  by mutat dure the cours of an infect quasi-speci
sever combin immunodefici due to a defect in dna repair pathways, which render cell unabl to per vdj recombin and unabl to repair radiation-induc double-strand break radiation-sensit scid rs-scid
host protein that act in a cell-autonom manner to inhibit the replic of retrovirus such as hiv restrict factor
a single-strand rna virus that use the viral enzym revers transcriptas to transcrib it genom into a dna intermedi that integr into the host-cel genom to undergo viral replic retrovirus
viral rna-depend dna polymeras that is found in retrovirus and transcrib the viral genom rna into dna dure the life cycl of retrovirus such as hiv revers transcriptas
defici in immun function that are a consequ of infect e.g. hiv infection, other diseas e.g. leukemia, malnutrition, etc. secondari immunodefici
the phase of an infect when antibodi against the infect agent are first detect in the blood seroconvers
name given to a strain of bacteria, or other pathogen, that can be distinguish from other strain of the same speci by specif antibodi serotyp
an inherit condit in which the neutrophil count is persist extrem low. this is in contrast to cyclic neutropenia, in which neutrophil number fluctuat from near normal to veri low or absent, with an approxim cycl time of 21 day sever congenit neutropenia scn
diseas caus when herp zoster virus the virus that caus chickenpox is re later in life in a person who has had chickenpox shingl
the introduct of function gene into somat cell to treat diseas somat gene therapi
an\xa0autoinflammatori diseas character by recurrent, period episod of inflamm and fever caus by mutat in gene that encod tnf receptor i. the defect tnfr-i protein fold abnorm and accumul in cell in such a way that they spontan  product of tnf-α tnf-receptor associ period syndrom trap
drug that inhibit the entri of hiv into it host cell viral entri inhibitor
drug that inhibit the action of the hiv integrase, so that the virus cannot integr into the host-cel genom viral integras inhibitor
enzym encod by the human immunodefici virus that cleav the long polyprotein product of the viral gene into individu protein viral proteas
in human immunodefici virus infection, the level of hiv virion persist in the blood after the acut phase of infect has pass viral set point
an immunotherapeut techniqu for rapid induc temporari toler to, for example, an essenti drug such as insulin or penicillin in a person who is allerg to it. when per properly, can produc symptom of mild to moder anaphylaxi acut desensit
the condit in which the airway are patholog sensit to both immunolog allergen and nonimmunolog stimuli, such as cold air, smoke, or perfumes. this condit is usual present in chronic asthma airway hyperreity, hyperrespons
a thicken of the airway wall that occur in chronic asthma due to hyperplasia and hypertrophi of the smooth muscl layer and mucus glands, with the eventu develop of fibrosis. often  in an irrevers decreas of lung function airway tissu remodel
ani antigen that elicit an allerg reaction allergen
an immunotherapeut techniqu that aim either to chang an allerg immun respons to a symptom-fre non-allerg response, or to develop immunolog toler to an allergen that has been caus unpleas clinic symptoms. the procedur involv expos an allerg individu to increas dose of allergen allergen desensit
an allerg reaction to inhal antigen, which caus constrict of the bronchi, increas product of airway mucus, and difficulti in breath allerg asthma
an allerg reaction involv the conjunctiva of the eye that occur in sensit individu expos to airborn allergens. it is usual manifest togeth with nasal allergi symptom as allerg rhinoconjunct or hay fever allerg conjunct
a larg t-cell-medi immunolog hypersensit reaction manifest by a skin rash at the site of contact with the allergen. often the stimulus is a chemic agent, for exampl urushiol oil from the leav of the poison ivi plant, which can hapten normal host molecul to render them allergen allerg contact dermat
a specif respons to an innocu environment antigen, or allergen, that is caus by sensit b or t cells. allerg reaction can be caus by various mechanisms, but the most common is the  of allergen to ige bound to mast cells, which caus the cell to releas histamin and other biolog  molecul that caus the sign and symptom of asthma, hay fever, and other respons allerg reaction
an allerg reaction in the nasal mucosa that caus excess mucus production, nasal itching, and sneez allerg rhiniti
a local skin reaction that occur when a sensit individu with igg antibodi against a particular antigen is challeng by inject of the antigen into the dermis. immun complex of the antigen with igg antibodi in the extracellular space in the dermi  complement and phagocyt cell to produc a local inflammatori respons arthus reaction
the clinic observ that it is common for children with atop eczema to later develop allerg rhiniti and/or asthma atop march
a genet base increas tendenc to produc ige-medi allerg reaction against innocu substanc atopi
the low-affin fc receptor for ige cd23
a hypersensit reaction mediat larg by antigen-specif t lymphocyt cellular hypersensit reaction
a  of cell-medi immun elicit by antigen in the skin stimul sensit th1 cd4 lymphocyt and cd8 lymphocytes. this reaction appear hour to day after antigen is injected. refer to as type iv hypersensit in the histor gell and coomb classif delayed-typ hypersensit reaction
an abnorm larg number of eosinophil in the blood eosinophilia
cc chemokin that act predomin on eosinophils, includ ccl11, ccl24, and ccl26 eotaxin
a hypersensit diseas caus by the interact of igg antibodi with larg amount of an inhal antigen in the alveolar wall of the lung, caus alveolar wall inflamm and compromis respiratori gas exchang farmer lung
the high affin receptor for the fc region of ige. express primarili on the surfac of mast cell and basophils. when multival antigen interact with ige that is bound to fcεri and cross-link nearbi receptors, it caus  of the receptor-bear cell fcεri
a vasoact amin store in mast-cel granules. releas of thei vasoact amin by antigen  to ige antibodi bound to mast cell caus the dilat of local blood vessel and the contract of smooth muscle, produc some of the symptom of ige-medi allerg reaction histamin
a hypothesi first propos in 1989 that reduc exposur to ubiquit environment microorgan was a caus of the increas frequenc of patient with allergi observ over the cours of the mid- to late-20th centuri hygien hypothesi
diseas associ with an overproduct of eosinophil hypereosinophil syndrom
allerg reaction that occur within second to minut of encount with antigen, caus larg by  of mast cell or basophil immedi hypersensit reaction
complex  by the  of antibodi to it cognat antigen.  complement proteins, especi c3b, are often bound in immun complexes. larg immun complex  when suffici antibodi is avail to cross-link multival antigen; these are clear by cell of the reticuloendotheli system that bear fc receptor and complement receptors. small, solubl immun complex  when antigen is in excess; these can be deposit in small blood vessel and damag them immun complex
allerg reaction that occur sever hour after initi encount with an antigen. thought to be manifest of recruit of multipl leukocyt subset to the site of allergen exposur late-phas reaction
protein releas by  eosinophil that act on mast cell and basophil to caus their degranul major basic protein
a screen test for tuberculosi in which a sterile-filt glycerol extract of, mycobacterium tuberculosis, bacilli tb is inject intraderm and the  is read 48–72 hour later. induration, firm swell caus by infiltr into the skin of inflammatori cells, can indic previous exposur to tb, either prior vaccin or current infect of, m.\xa0tuberculosis, . generally, indur at the site of inject greater than 10 mm in diamet indic the need for addit test to assess whether infect with tb is present mantoux test
an allerg reaction induc to an allergen to which someon is habitu expos in their work occup allergi
ige-medi allerg rhiniti and conjunct caus by exposur to specif season occur antigens, for exampl grass or weed pollens. common call hay fever season allerg rhinoconjunct
the acut adapt immun respons made by suscept individu on first exposur to an allergen. in some of these individuals, subsequ exposur to the allergen will provok an allerg reaction sensit
in allergy, describ an individu who has made an ige respons on initi encount with an environment antigen and who manifest ige-produc memori b cells. subsequ allergen exposur can elicit an allerg respons sensit
a usual self-limit immunolog hypersensit reaction origin seen in respons to the therapeut inject of larg amount of foreign serum now most usual evok by the inject of drug such as penicillin. it is caus by the at of immun complex of the antigen and the antibodi  against it, which becom deposit in the tissues, especi the kidney serum sick
the technic term for hives, which are red, itchi skin wheal usual brought on by an allerg reaction urticaria
a skin reaction observ in an allerg individu when an allergen to which the individu has been sensit is inject into the dermis. it consist of a rais area of skin contain edema fluid, and a spreading, red, itchi inflammatori reaction around it wheal-and-flar reaction
the more rapid reject of a second graft after reject of the first graft. it was one of the piec of evid that show that graft reject was due to an adapt immun respons acceler reject
the reject of a tissu or organ graft from a genet unrel donor that occur within 10–13 day of transplant unless prevent by immunosuppress treatment acut reject
antibodi produc against antigen from a genet nonident member of the same speci alloantibodi
antigen from anoth genet nonident member of the same speci alloantigen
a transplant of tissu from an allogen genet nonident donor of the same species. such graft are invari reject unless the recipi is immunosuppress allograft
antibodi specif for self antigen autoantibodi
a self antigen to which the immun system make a respons autoantigen
a transplant of tissu from one site to anoth on the same individu autograft
a patholog condit with low level of red blood cell anemia, which is caus by autoantibodi that  red blood cell surfac antigen and target the red blood cell for destruct autoimmun hemolyt anemia
an diseas in which antibodi against one own platelet are made. antibodi  to platelet caus them to be taken up by cell with fc receptor and complement receptors,  in a decreas in platelet count that lead to bleed autoimmun thrombocytopen purpura
adapt immun specif for self antigen autoimmun
chronic damag that can lead to late failur of transplant organs. arteriosclerosi of graft blood vessel lead to hypoperfus of the graft and it eventu fibrosi and atrophi chronic allograft vasculopathi
late failur of a transplant organ, which can be due to immunolog or nonimmunolog caus chronic reject
a test use in blood type and histocompat type to determin whether donor and recipi have antibodi against each other cell that might interfer with success transfus or graft cross-match
ani epitop that cannot be recogn by a lymphocyt receptor until the antigen has been broken down and process cryptic epitop
host recognit of a graft tissu that involv donor antigen-pres cell leav the graft, migrat via the lymph to region lymph nodes, and  host t cell bear the correspond t-cell receptor direct allorecognit
increas in divers of respons to autoantigen as the respons persists, as a  of respons be made to epitop other than the origin one epitop spread
an inflammatori diseas of the central nervous system that develop after mice are immun with neural antigen in a strong adjuv experiment autoimmun encephalomyel eae
genet associ studi in the general popul that look for a correl between diseas frequenc and variant allel by scan the genom of mani peopl for the presenc of in single-nucleotid polymorph snps genome-wid associ studi gwass
an autoimmun diseas in which autoantibodi against type iv collagen found in basement membran are produced, caus extens inflamm in kidney and lung goodpastur syndrom
a benefici side-effect of bone marrow graft given to treat leukemia, in which matur t cell in the graft recogn minor histocompat antigen or tumor-specif antigen on the recipi leukem cell and attack them graft-versus-leukemia effect
an autoimmun diseas in which antibodi against the thyroid-stimul hormon receptor caus overproduct of thyroid hormon and thus hyperthyroid grave diseas
an autoimmun diseas character by persist high level of antibodi against thyroid-specif antigens. these antibodi recruit nk cell to the thyroid, lead to damag and inflamm hashimoto thyroid
immedi reject reaction caus by pre natur antibodi that react against antigen on the transplant organ. the antibodi  to endothelium and trigger the blood-clot cascade, lead to an engorged, ischem graft and rapid death of the organ hyperacut graft reject
the deliber attempt to chang the cours of an immun response, for exampl by alter the bias toward t, h, 1 or t, h, 2 domin immun modul
certain site in the body, such as the brain, that do not mount an immun respons against tissu allografts. this can be due both to physic barrier to cell and antigen migrat and to the presenc of immunosuppress cytokin immunolog privileg site
recognit of a graft tissu that involv the uptak of allogen protein by the recipi antigen-pres cell and their present to t cell by self mhc molecul indirect allorecognit
immun dysregulation, polyendocrinopathy, enteropathy, x-link syndrome. a veri rare inherit condit in which cd4 cd25 regulatori tregcel are lack as a  of a mutat in the gene for the transcript factor foxp3, lead to the develop of autoimmun ipex immun dysregulation, polyendocrinopathy, enteropathy, x-link
peptid of polymorph cellular protein bound to mhc molecul that can lead to graft reject when they are recogn by t cell minor histocompat antigen
diseas due to the product of cryoglobulin cold-precipit immunoglobulins, sometim in respons to chronic infect such as hepat c, which can lead to the deposit of immun complex in joint and tissu mix essenti cryoglobulinemia
the similar between some pathogen antigen and host antigens, such that antibodi and t cell produc against the er also react against host tissues. this similar may be the caus of some autoimmun molecular mimicri
a neurolog autoimmun diseas character by focal demyelin in the central nervous system, lymphocyt infiltr in the brain, and a chronic progress cours multipl sclerosi
an autoimmun diseas in which autoantibodi against the acetylcholin receptor on skelet muscl cell caus a  in neuromuscular junctions, lead to progress weak and eventu death myasthenia gravi
an autoimmun diseas character by sever blister of the skin and mucos membran pemphigus vulgari
toler due to the action of regulatori t cell regulatori toler
diseas caus by antibodi elicit by infect with some, streptococcus, species. these antibodi cross-react with kidney, joint, and heart antigen rheumat fever
a common inflammatori joint diseas that is probabl due to an autoimmun respons rheumatoid arthriti ra
an anti-igg antibodi of the igm class first identifi in patient with rheumatoid arthritis, but which is also found in healthi individu rheumatoid factor
the failur to make an immun respons against the bodi own antigen self-toler
posit in the genom that differ by a singl base between individu single-nucleotid polymorph snps
an autoimmun diseas in which exocrin glands, particular the lacrim gland of the eye and salivari gland of the mouth, are damag by the immun system. this  in dri eye and mouth sjögren syndrom
autoimmun respons that occur in the other eye after one eye is damag sympathet ophthalmia
a graft between two genet ident individuals. it is accept as self syngen graft
diseas in which the β cell of the pancreat islet of langerhan are destroy so that no insulin is produced. the diseas is believ to  from an autoimmun attack on the β cell type 1 diabet mellitus
graft organ taken from a differ speci than the recipi xenograft
in the context of immune-medi disease, refer to immun direct against foreign antigen of non-human species, such as bacteria-deriv antigen of the commens microbiota that are target in inflammatori bowel diseas ibd xenoimmun
suffix appli to fulli murin monoclon antibodi use for human therapi -omab
suffix appli to fulli human monoclon antibodi use for human therapi -umab
suffix appli to chimer i.e. mouse/human monoclon antibodi use for human therapi -ximab
suffix appli to human monoclon antibodi use for human therapi -zumab
an fc fusion protein contain the ctla-4 extracellular domain use in treat rheumatoid arthriti that  co-stimul of t cell by  b7 molecul abatacept
a ul of pertussi contain chemic in antigens, includ pertussi toxoid acellular pertussi vaccin
serine/threonin kinas  downstream of pi3 kinas with numer downstream target involv in cell growth and survival, includ  of the mtor pathway akt
recombin cd58–igg1 fusion protein that  cd2  by cd58 use in treatment for psoriasi alefacept
antibodi to cd52 use for lymphocyt depletion, such as for t-cell deplet dure bone marrow allograft use in treat chronic myeloid leukemia alemtuzumab
peptid in which amino acid substitut have been made in t-cell receptor contact posit that affect their  to the receptor alter peptid ligand apl
a recombin il-1 receptor antagonist il-1ra use to  il-1 receptor  and use in treat rheumatoid arthriti anakinra
inflammatori diseas of the spine lead to vertebr fusion strong associ with hla-b27 ankylos spondyl
treatment in which an antibodi is link to an enzym that metabol a nontox pro-drug to the  cytotox drug antibody-direct enzyme/pro-drug therapi adept
antiserum rais in anoth speci against human t cells. it is use in the temporari suppress of immun respons in transplant anti-lymphocyt globulin
the process by which human or anim pathogen are modifi by growth in cultur so that they can grow in their host and induc immun without produc serious clinic diseas attenu
a power cytotox drug that is convert to it  , in vivo, , which then kill rapid prolifer cells, includ prolifer lymphocytes; it is use as an immunosuppress to treat autoimmun diseas and in transplant azathioprin
antibodi to human cd25 use to  il-2 receptor signal in t cell for treatment of reject in renal transplant basiliximab
constitut  tyrosin kinas fusion protein caus by a chromosom translocation—th philadelphia chromosome—between, bcr, with the, abl, tyrosin kinas gene associ with chronic myeloid leukemia bcr–abl tyrosin kinas
medic treatment compris natur protein such as antibodi and cytokines, and antisera or whole cell biolog therapi
a process that occur dure the develop of a cancer when it is acquir mutat that favor it surviv and escap from immun responses, such that cancer cell with these mutat are select for surviv and growth cancer immunoedit
protein express by cancer cell that are normal express onli in male germ cell in the testi cancer-testi antigen
engin fusion protein compos of extracellular antigen-specif receptor e.g. single-chain antibodi and intracellular signal domain that  and co-stimulate, express in tregcel for use in cancer immunotherapi chimer antigen receptor car
antibacteri vaccin made from bacteri capsular polysaccharid bound to protein of known immunogenicity, such as tetanus toxoid conjug vaccin
famili of drug relat to natur steroid such as cortisone. these drug can kill lymphocytes, especi develop thymocytes, induc apoptot cell death. they are medic use anti-inflammatori and immunosuppress agent corticosteroid
a famili of prolylisomeras that affect protein folding, that also  cyclosporin a to produc a complex that associ with calcineurin, prevent it  by calmodulin cyclophilin
a dna alkyl agent that is use as an immunosuppress drug. it act by kill rapid divid cells, includ lymphocyt prolifer in respons to antigen cyclophosphamid
antibodi to human cd25 use to  il-2 receptor signal in t cell for treatment of reject in renal transplant daclizumab
immunosuppress monoclon antibodi that trigger the destruct of lymphocytes, in vivo, . they are use for treat episod of acut graft reject deplet antibodi
refer to a categori of gene with restrict express pattern that can be target as antigen by immunotherapi in treatment of cancer differenti antigen
vaccin by introduct into skin and muscl of dna encod the desir antigen; the express protein can then elicit antibodi and t-cell respons dna vaccin
transfer of matur lymphocyt i.e. tregcel from donor into patient dure bone marrow transplant for cancer treatment to help elimin residu tumor donor lymphocyt infus dli
stage of anti-tumor immun respons that detect and elimin cancer cells, also call immun surveil elimin phase
stage of anti-tumor immun respons when immunoedit allow the immun respons to continu shape the antigen charact of cancer cell equilibrium phase
final stage of anti-tumor immun respons when immunoedit has remov the express of antigen target such that the cancer cell are no loner detect by the immun system escap phase
fc fusion protein contain the p75 subunit of the tnf receptor that neutral tnf-α use for treatment of rheumatoid arthriti and other inflammatori diseas etanercept
small-molecul immunosuppress drug that interfer with the action of sphingosine, lead to retent of effector t cell in lymphoid organ fingolimod
group of prolyl isomeras relat to the cyclophilin and  the immunosuppress drug fk506 tacrolimus fk- protein fkbps
emuls of oil and water contain kill mycobacteria use to enhanc immun respons to experiment antigen freund complet adjuv
a high pathogen influenza subtyp respons for bird flu h5n1 avian flu
a receptor tyrosin kinas overexpress in mani cancers, particular breast cancer, that is the target of trastuzumab herceptin use in it treatment her-2/neu
protect confer to unvaccin individu in a popul produc by vaccin of other and reduct in the natur reservoir for infect herd immun
immun protect against a pathogen confer by infect with a distinct strain, typic with refer to differ influenza a serotyp heterosubtyp immun
the genet engin of mous hypervari loop of a desir specif into otherwis human antibodi for use as therapeut agents. such antibodi are less like to caus an immun respons in peopl treat with them than are wholli mous antibodi human
rate-limit enzym in the product of cholesterol and a target of cholesterol-low drug such as the statin 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-co-enzym a hmg-coa reductas
drug aldara approv for treatment of basal cell carcinoma, genit warts, and actin keratos known to  tlr-7, although not approv as an adjuv for vaccin imiquimod
the recognition, and in some case the elimination, of tumor cell by the immun system befor they becom clinic detect immun surveil
treatment that seek to modifi an immun respons in a benefici way, for exampl to reduc or prevent an autoimmun or allerg respons immunomodulatori therapi
antibodi that are chemic coupl to toxic protein usual deriv from plant or microbes. the antibodi target the toxin moieti to the requir cell immunotoxin
enzym express by immun cell and some tumor that catabol tryptophan into kynurenin metabolit that can have immunosuppress function indoleamin 2,3-dioxygenas ido
chimer antibodi to tnf-α use in the treatment of inflammatori diseases, such as crohn diseas and rheumatoid arthriti infliximab
antibodi to human ctla-4 use to treat melanoma, and first checkpoint ad immunotherapi ipilimumab
small molecul kinas inhibitor with relat select for one or more of the jak kinas jak inhibitor jakinib
heterogen group of protein of divers or unknown function character by restrict express limit to tumor i.e. melanoma or testi germ cell melanoma-associ antigen mage
spread of a tumor from it origin locat to distant organ of the bodi by travel through the blood or lymphat or by direct extens metastasi
a proprietari adjuv base on squalin and water use in europ and canada in conjunct with influenza vaccin mf-59
 complex of mtor  with the regulatori protein raptor and rictor, respect mtorc1, mtorc2
a mous antibodi against human cd3 use to treat transplant rejection; this was the first monoclon antibodi approv as a drug in human muromomab
an inhibitor of the synthesi of guanosin monophosph that act as a cytotox immunosuppress drug. it act by kill rapid divid cells, includ lymphocyt prolifer in respons to antigen mycophenol
pro-drug use in cancer treatment that is metabol to mycophenolate, and inhibitor of inosin monophosph dehydrogenase, therebi impair guanosin monophosphate, and thus dna, synthesi mycophenol mofetil
cell in tumor that can inhibit t-cell  within the tumor myeloid-deriv suppressor cell mdscs
human antibodi to α4 integrin use to treat crohn diseas and multipl sclerosis. it  lymphocyt adhes to endothelium, impair their migrat into tissu natalizumab
type of tumor reject antigen creat by mutat in protein that can be present by self-mhc molecul to t cell neoepitop
an influenza virus protein that cleav sialic acid from host cell to allow viral detach and a common antigen determin neuraminidas
human anti-pd-1 antibodi use for checkpoint ad in treatment of metastat melanoma nivolumab
immunosuppress antibodi that  the function of target protein on cell without caus the cell to be destroy non-deplet antibodi
a particular high immunogen cancer-testi antigen express by mani type of human tumor includ melanoma ny-eso-1
human anti-pd-1 antibodi use for checkpoint ad in treatment of metastat melanoma pembrolizumab
b-cell expans driven by epstein–barr virus ebv in which the b cell can undergo mutat and becom malignant. this can occur when patient are immunosuppress after, for example, solid organ transplant post-transpl lymphoprolif disord
a synthet steroid with potent anti-inflammatori and immunosuppress  use in treat acut graft rejection, autoimmun disease, and lymphoid tumor prednison
diseas in immunocompromis patient caus by opportunisit infect by jc virus, for exampl as a consequ of immunotherapi progress multifoc leukoencephalopathi pml
enzym express by prostat cancer cell use as tumor reject antigen in the vaccin sipuleucel-t proveng prostat acid phosphatas pap
chronic autoimmun diseas thought to be driven by t cell manifest in skin, but which can also involv nail and joint psoriat arthropathi psoriasi
an immunosuppress drug that  intracellular signal pathway involv the serine/threonin kinas mammalian target of rapamycin mtor requir for the inhibit of apoptosi and t-cell expansion. also call sirolimus rapamycin
a small gtpase that  mtor when in it gtp-bound , and is in by a gtpase- protein gap complex tsc1/2 rheb
a chimer antibodi to cd20 use to elimin b cell in treatment of non-hodgkin lymphoma rituximab
an inhibitor of jak1 and jak2 approv for treatment of myelofibrosi ruxolitinib
cell-bas immunotherapi use to treat prostat cancer that combin prostat acid phosphatas as a tumor reject antigen present by dendrit cell deriv from a patient monocyt sipuleucel-t proveng
an immunosuppress drug that  intracellular signal pathway involv the serine/threonin kinas mammalian target of rapamycin mtor requir for the inhibit of apoptosi and t-cell expansion. also call rapamycin sirolimus
drug inhibitor of hmg-coa reductas use to lower cholesterol statin
an antibody-drug conjug combin trastuzumab herceptin with mertansin use to treat recurr metastat breast cancer previous treat with a differ trastuzumab drug conjug t-dm1
human anti-il-6 receptor antibodi use in treat rheumatoid arthriti tocilizumab
an inhibitor of jak3 and jak1 use to treat rheumatoid arthriti and under investig in other inflammatori disord tofacitinib
human antibodi to her-2/neu use in treatment of breast cancer trastuzumab
protein complex that act as a gtpase- protein gap for rheb in it non-phosphoryl state. this protein complex is in when phosphoryl by akt tsc
antigen on the surfac of tumor cell that can be recogn by t cells, lead to attack on the tumor cells. tras are peptid of mutant or overexpress cellular protein bound to mhc class i molecul on the tumor-cel surfac tumor reject antigen
enzym in melanin synthesi pathway and frequent a tumor reject antigen in melanoma tyrosinas
death of nearbi cell is a characterist of necrosi
bleb protrus of the membran
sound will travel fastest in air/water/iron iron
what type of protein are found in the zona pellucida glycoprotein
what doe gnrh stimul the releas of lsh and fh from anterior pituitari
what are the cremast &amp; darto muscl regul the height of the scrotum in order to regul the temperatur of the test
first step after the test epididymi - gain mitochondria &amp; flagella
where doe sperm go after epididymi vas deferen
function of semin vesicl secret alkaline, sugari fluid. 60% of semen volum come from semin vesicles. urethra &amp; vagina are acidic, thus requir neutral
after vas deferen urethra
gastric gland aka chief cell (secret pepsinogen)
carboxypeptidas is produc where and doe what produc in pancreas, hydrolyz termin peptid bond at c terminus
aminopeptidas is produc where and doe what produc in intestin gland and hydrolyz termin peptid bond at n terminus
what is the law of segreg homolog allel (chromosomes) separ so that each gamet has one copi of each gene
when doe cross over occur between prophas 1 and metaphas 1
relationship between map unit &amp; recombin frequenc one map unit = 1% recombin frequenc
episom plasmid that can be integr into the genom
facult anaerob someth that can grow in oxygen-rich and oxygen-poor environ
isol system no exchang of energi or matter
close system can exchang energy, but not matter
isotherm process temperatur remain constant
adiabat no heat exchang
gay-lussac law pressur is proport to temperatur (at fix volume) eddi get heat when under pressur
avogadro principl equal volum of gas have the same number of particl (constant temp &amp; pressure)
raoult law vapor pressur of pure compon * mole fraction = vapor pressur in mixtur
hydroxyquinon structur 
cyclic amid are call lactam
cyclic ester are call lacton
in revers phase chromatography, stationari phase is ____ and mobil phase is ____ stationari phase is nonpolar. mobil phase is polar.
